 (CNN)President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden traveled to Fort Bragg, North Carolina, on Monday afternoon to hold a "Friendsgiving" celebration with military service members and their families. 
"I want to thank not only the warriors, I want to thank your family because they stand and wait," Biden said at Fort Bragg. "I know how hard it is to have someone that's not at the table on a holiday, that are in harm's way, find themselves out of the country."
He recounted his late son Beau's service in Iraq and work in Kosovo, and called US service members the "finest in the world."
"That's not hyperbole. You literally are," Biden continued. "You're the finest the world has ever seen. And I'm so damn proud to be associated with you, and it's hard for me to even say it, but the thing that's amazing to me is how proud I am to be your commander-in-chief. You are the most incredible group of women and men, warriors that we've ever seen."
The first lady said they were both "so grateful" for everything the service members and their families do. 
"Joe and I feel like, you know, you're family to us, and we cannot thank you enough," she said.
The first couple, donning kitchen aprons emblazoned with the presidential seal, served food to group of some 250 attendees, which included elected officials, service members, and family members of deployed soldiers. The President served stuffing and the first lady served mashed potatoes. 
The first couple's visit was part of the Joining Forces initiative -- a White House effort to support military personnel, their families and veterans.
Earlier this month, Jill Biden joined former Sen. Elizabeth Dole, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Veterans Affairs Secretary Denis McDonough for a Joining Forces event at the White House highlighting military caregiving families ahead of Veterans Day. 
The initiative was started in 2011 by Jill Biden and then-first lady Michelle Obama. 
On Tuesday, the Bidens will participate in a Thanksgiving service project alongside Vice President Kamala Harris and second gentleman Doug Emhoff in Washington. Afterward, the Bidens are expected to travel to Nantucket, Massachusetts, where they'll spend Thanksgiving with family.
This story has been updated with remarks from President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden. 

Jorge G. Castañeda was Mexico's foreign minister from 2000 to 2003. He is a professor at New York University. The views expressed in this commentary are those of the author. View more opinion articles on CNN.
 (CNN)On Thursday in Washington, Presidents Joe Biden and Andrés Manuel López Obrador will meet for the first time in person since 2012, when neither of the two had their current jobs. 
While they have held several virtual encounters, and high-level American officials have traveled to Mexico recently, this first face-to-face meeting will give Biden an opportunity to review his disastrous immigration policy. From day one of his administration, it has dominated his approach toward Mexico.
Although discussions on other issues -- trade, investment, drugs, security -- have taken place at high levels, migration has pushed everything else to a back burner. The same thing happened under the Trump administration, more or less: With the exception of the new trade agreement, labeled USMCA, former President Donald Trump put immigration at the top of his list, when it came to US-Mexico relations, to the exclusion of almost everything else.
Biden's dismal poll numbers on immigration and Republicans' unforgiving attacks on his handling of the border have led the American President to depend almost entirely on Mexico to help him sort out the immigration mess. Only Mexico can at least partially keep Central Americans, Haitians, Cubans, Venezuelans, Ecuadorians and Brazilians from the US border, even if by doing so it mistreats them or places them in squalid camps along its side of the US-Mexican border.
Consequently, Biden has been unwilling to call out López Obrador publicly on domestic issues in Mexico, which -- because of the intensity of the relationship between the two countries -- are all, rather, intermestic.
As long as Mexico does Washington's bidding on migration, keeping Central and South Americans from reaching the US southern border, Biden looks the other way on other matters. These include Mexico's mishandling of its economy; the absence of the rule of law; corruption; violations or threats to USMCA provisions on energy, investment and agriculture; drug enforcement; regional issues such as elections in Nicaragua and protests in Cuba; and the consolidation of democracy and human rights in Mexico. 
Paradoxically, AMLO's policies have only compounded Biden's predicament: By mismanaging his country, the Mexican President has created new incentives for Mexicans to migrate to the United States.
The migration-only approach has not worked. For fiscal 2021, American authorities carried out more than 1.7 million border apprehensions, the highest total ever recorded. The number for September was the highest for that month since at least 2000; October dipped slightly, largely because fewer Haitians attempted to enter the United States, but the figure was still much greater than for any October in decades. More than a third of those apprehended are Mexican, far more than nationals of any other country, and most are single adults. This is no coincidence.
Apprehensions of Mexicans have been rising for three years now, and one of the reasons is López Obrador. AMLO is driving the Mexican economy into the ground, through a misconceived reluctance to implement any fiscal stimulus during the pandemic (which he also botched), mistakenly designed electric power reform, and the absence of any tax reform. He is generating further incentives for Mexicans to migrate, especially at a time when labor scarcities in the United States are growing. Both push and pull factors are driving more Mexicans to head north.
Herein lies the great opportunity for both leaders to reach a far-ranging agreement on immigration. López Obrador has rightly insisted that Washington should significantly increase the number of temporary work visas it offers. Economic stagnation in Mexico, a US economy facing labor shortages in practically every occupational category, and an imminent infrastructure construction boom plainly justify such increases. These would automatically diminish the pressure of unauthorized migrants entering the United States, essentially allowing many of them to enter through fully legal doors.
But beyond this short-term remedy (that could affect hundreds of thousands of migrants), Biden should design a different approach toward Mexico. 
First, it should not be based almost exclusively on immigration, as important as it may be to both countries. Second, it should clearly include issues that are of great import to the United States, but which López Obrador wrongly considers as strictly internal Mexican affairs. This means democracy, human rights, macro-economic policy, the rule of law, energy reform and regional affairs such as the current crises in Nicaragua, Venezuela and Cuba.
For example, instead of pressuring Mexico to impose visas on Venezuelan refugees seeking to travel to the United States (as the Biden administration reportedly has done), it should persuade Mexico not to welcome Venezuelan dictator Nicolas Maduro, whose regime forces those Venezuelans to leave their country.
It also means reaching some kind of understanding with Mexico on drug-policy and violence, beyond bromides about reducing homicides in Mexico and enhancing cooperation. Mainly, it implies doing all of this in a much more public manner than until now.
Washington should follow a two-track approach to Mexico, not dissimilar to the one it has adopted for China and Russia. As with these two countries -- China being more important for Washington than Mexico, Russia less so -- it should engage, negotiate and reach agreements where possible, but speak out on those issues where the two countries not only disagree, but are increasingly at odds. Biden has not hesitated to publicly decry human rights violations by the governments in Beijing and Moscow, while simultaneously cooperating with them on decisive issues such as climate change.
López Obrador is totally indifferent to private American criticism; he shrugs it off as unwarranted interference in his country's domestic affairs. But he is extremely sensitive to public statements, whether undiplomatic and unfortunate (as in Trump's case), or more careful (as in Biden's). He knows that the United States represents the only obstacle to his populist, harebrained, so-called "Fourth Transformation" of Mexico.
Nothing would harm long-term American interests in Mexico as much as instability; every administration in Mexico since Woodrow Wilson has known this. The country is at least as politically delicate for the United States as Russia and China. If Biden doubts this, he should look at his poll numbers on handling immigration and the border.

 (CNN)The Biden administration's Office of Management and Budget on Wednesday released a detailed breakdown of agency compliance with the federal government Covid-19 vaccine mandate, which went into effect via executive order earlier this week, linking high levels of compliance as proof mandates work to boost vaccinations.
Data provided by the OMB broke down the percentage of employees in compliance, meaning those employees who have had at least one dose of a vaccine or have submitted or received an exemption request, and the percentage of employees who have had at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. 
There are some differences between those two numbers for each agency, per data shared by the OMB.
The Department of Transportation, for example, has the highest level of compliance with the mandate at 99.6%, though just 90.6% of its workforce has had at least one vaccine shot. 
The agency with the highest level of vaccination is the US Agency for International Development, with 97.8% of its workforce having at least one shot. 96.4% of Department of Health and Human Services personnel have had at least one shot, and 96.2% of staff at the National Science Foundation.
The agency with the lowest level of vaccination is the US Department of Agriculture, where 86.1% of employees have had at least one Covid-19 shot. At the Social Security Administration, 87.7% of employees have had at least one shot, and 87.8% of employees at the Department of Veterans Affairs have had at least one dose.
A source familiar with the data told CNN Wednesday's figures exceeded expectations.
Among the 3.5 million federal employees covered by the requirement, the OMB said in a statement, "In the 75 days since the President announced the vaccination requirement, the Federal Government has achieved 96.5% compliance -- meaning employees who have had at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccination or have a pending or approved exception request -- with 92.0% of employees having received at least one Covid-19 vaccination dose.
That implementation, the statement said, shows "these requirements work." 
White House spokesman Kevin Munoz said that the requirement was implemented without any disruptions. 
"The Federal government, the country's largest employer, has successfully implemented its requirement in a way that has boosted vaccinations and avoids any disruptions to operations," Munoz said. "We hope that our implementation sends the clear message to businesses to move forward with similar measures that will protect their workforce, protect their customers, and protect our communities."
Earlier this year, Biden imposed stringent new vaccine rules on federal workers, large employers and health care staff in an attempt to contain the latest surge of Covid-19, particularly after the emergency of the highly transmissible Delta variant.
Biden also directed the Labor Department to require all businesses with 100 or more employees ensure their workers are either vaccinated or tested once a week. Eighty-four million workers would be covered by the rules, which are scheduled to fully take effect on January 4.
Immediately after being announced, the mandate came under challenge from Republican-led states and some private employers, who say the administration overstepped its authority in issuing such a rule.
A federal appeals court put the mandate on hold. It is now before the conservative-leaning Ohio-based 6th US Circuit Court of Appeals, which could soon decide its fate.
But many employers continue to implement vaccine mandates, regardless of whether the courts uphold or strike down Biden's requirements. Court decisions against mandates apply only to the government's rules, not to individual companies that have instituted their own vaccine requirements.
CNN's Arlette Saenz and Kate Sullivan contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)President Joe Biden on Wednesday sought to reassure Americans that shelves will be stocked this holiday season despite issues with global supply chains, and that his administration is "using every tool available" to bring down high consumer prices. 
"If you watched the news recently, you might think the shelves in all our stores are empty across the country, that parents won't be able to get presents for their children this holiday season," Biden said. "But here's the deal: For the vast majority of the country, that's not what's happening."
The President touted actions his administration has taken to speed up operations and extend hours at key southern California ports as well as facilitating the transportation of goods more quickly. 
Overall, Biden said "shelves are going to be stocked" and that the US is "heading into the holiday season in very strong shape."
Biden said CEOs he met with earlier this week "reported that their inventories are up, shelves are well stocked and they're ready to meet the consumer demand for the holidays." The President hosted a roundtable at the White House with executives from Best Buy, Food Lion, Etsy, Walmart, Mattel, Samsung, CVS Health and others. 
In October, in response to a backlog of container ships off of the West Coast, the President announced the Port of Los Angeles would move to 24/7 service, bringing it in line with operations at the Port of Long Beach, which was already working on a 24/7 schedule. Those two ports handle 40% of container traffic in the US. 
"Over the last month, the number of containers left sitting on docks blocking movement to those stores was for over eight days. Now it's down by 40%, which means they're heading to shelves in stores more quickly," Biden said. "That's an incredible success story."
The President also addressed rising consumer prices that are frustrating Americans across the country and said his administration has been "using every tool available" to address the issue. The White House is facing mounting pressure to lower skyrocketing prices at the pump that are contributing to the biggest inflation spike in decades. 
"This is a worldwide challenge, a natural by-product for the world economy shut down by the pandemic as it comes back to life," Biden said, pointing to other countries like the United Kingdom and Canada that are having the same issue. 
The President said: "Prices are still out of sync as the world comes back. But as we continue to overcome these obstacles, the more price pressures will ease."
He said the US' release of emergency oil reserves, which is being conducted in coordination with several other major countries, "won't solve the high gas prices overnight, but it has been making a difference." 
Over the last month, he said, "likely due in part to the anticipation of this action, we've seen the price of oil and gasoline on the wholesale markets come down significantly."
"In fact, since the end of October, the average weekly price of gasoline in the wholesale market has fallen by about 10%. That's a drop of 25 cents per gallon. Those savings should reach the American people very soon, and it can't happen fast enough," Biden said. 
The Department of Energy will release 50 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve -- the largest release from the reserve in US history, Biden said. It is being done in coordination with several other countries, including China, India, Japan, the Republic of Korea and the United Kingdom.
This story has been updated with additional information. 

Washington (CNN)The Biden administration's new, stricter Covid-19 testing requirements for all travelers coming to the United States will take effect on Monday, an administration official told CNN.
The new rules will require each traveler flying into the US from another country to test negative one day before their departure, changing rules that had allowed inbound travelers to test up to three days before entering the country. The new rule from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will take effect at 12:01 a.m. ET on Monday.
The shift in policy -- which President Joe Biden announced Thursday alongside a slate of new steps to combat Covid-19 this winter -- underscores the potential threat posed by the newly discovered Omicron variant. Scientists are still working to determine how transmissible the variant is, how sick it makes people and how well the current vaccines work against it.
"Experts say that Covid-19 cases will continue to rise in the weeks ahead and this winter," the President said. "So we need to be ready."
Any foreign national who travels to the US must be fully vaccinated, though there remains no vaccination requirement for American citizens traveling via air, either globally or domestically. The White House said earlier in the day that a vaccine requirement for domestic travel remained on the table as an option for the future.
On Monday, the US banned all travel from South Africa and seven neighboring nations, with the exception of US citizens and legal permanent residents, who must test negative to enter the US but not once they have arrived. Asked Tuesday how long current travel restrictions would remain in place, Biden said, "Well, it kind of depends."
"It's going week-to-week, to determine what we need and what the state of affairs (is). We're going to learn a lot more in the next couple of weeks about the lethality of this virus, about how much it spreads, about whether what we have can control it, etc.," he continued.
Health officials are urging people to get vaccinated against Covid-19 or get a booster if they're eligible. Other measures such as masks, handwashing, physical distancing and ventilation will still work against the Omicron variant.
The Delta variant of the coronavirus remains the dominant variant globally and in the United States.
This story has been updated with additional information Thursday.

 (CNN)President Joe Biden on Tuesday called on Republicans to stop pursuing retaliation against 13 members of their party who voted to pass the $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill in the House last week, saying he's never seen things this way in Congress. 
Some conservative House Republicans have discussed booting those GOP colleagues from committee spots, even though the effort faces little chance of succeeding. And former President Donald Trump has been privately criticizing the 13 Republicans who voted to pass the bill, questioning why they would give Biden a win when he's struggling in the polls, according to a GOP source.
"Well, I'm hoping, Jaime, that we can get back to a place where there's more civility in politics," Biden said in conversation with Democratic National Committee Chair Jaime Harrison during a grassroots town hall. "I really mean it. And I've never seen it this way." 
He continued, "If they're a chairman of a committee, they're trying to strip them of that chairmanship. I've never seen it like this before. It's gotta stop for the sake of America. I know I get in trouble when I talk about bipartisan -- these people say, why in the devil would I like any Republicans? Well, it's important. ... Unless we can generate consensus in America, we're in trouble." 
"It's just not right. We're going to change it though," the President said. 
During the town hall, Biden thanked members of Congress, both Democrats and Republicans, for passing the massive infrastructure package, something he noted that his predecessor never got done. He also expressed confidence that Congress will pass the Build Back Better portion of his agenda. 
"For four years long, the last President told us we're gonna get infrastructure done. But he couldn't get it done, so it was left to us and we got the job done," he said, adding, "And now we need to do it again with my Build Back Better plan and I'm confident we're gonna get it done as we did in the past with everything else we've tried so far."
Biden said Democrats need to stay unified ahead of the midterm elections, crediting a unified party for propelling him to the White House a year ago this week.
"We need to remember what got us to the White House in the first place. We won in 2020 as a unified party, maybe more unified than ever. Now, as I look at 2022, we need to stay unified. We need to remember that the American people sent us here to deliver, to make their lives better," he said.
The 13 House Republicans who voted for the legislation last week are: Reps. Don Bacon of Nebraska; Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania; Andrew Gabarino, John Katko, Nicole Malliotakis and Tom Reed of New York; Anthony Gonzalez of Ohio; Adam Kinzinger of Illinois; David McKinley of West Virginia; Chris Smith and Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey; Fred Upton of Michigan; and Don Young of Alaska.
Some of those members have faced serious blowback.
Upton said on Monday that he received a threatening voicemail after voting for the bill. On CNN's "AC360," Upton shared a message from a caller who said, "I hope you die. I hope everybody in your f**king family dies."
Several Republican sources said that only a handful of the most conservative members are pushing to strip the members from their committee assignments. Even so, there has been a lot of criticism directed toward Katko, the ranking Republican on the House Homeland Security Committee.
Trump has publicly lambasted the House and Senate Republicans who voted for the legislation, including Senate GOP Leader Mitch McConnell.
"Very sad that the RINOs in the House and Senate gave Biden and Democrats a victory on the 'Non-Infrastructure' Bill," Trump said in a statement on Sunday. "All Republicans who voted for Democrat longevity should be ashamed of themselves, in particular Mitch McConnell, for granting a two month stay which allowed the Democrats time to work things out at our Country's, and the Republican Party's, expense!"
CNN's Alex Rogers and Manu Raju contributed to this report.
 (CNN)A federal judge said this weekend that she would not block the Biden administration's vaccine mandate for health care workers while a Florida lawsuit challenging the mandate moves forward.
In her decision declining Florida's request for preliminary order blocking the health care worker mandate, US District Judge Casey Rodgers said that Florida had not shown "that irreparable injury will occur " if the court did not block the mandate before it starts to take effect next month.
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, a Republican, has been a prominent opponent of President Joe Biden's efforts to mandate vaccines. The state is involved in other lawsuits challenging the Biden administration's mandate for federal contractors, as well as the vaccine rules issued by Occupational Safety and Health Administration. At DeSantis' urging, Florida's GOP-controlled legislature also passed last week bills that would impose fines on companies that require vaccines as a condition of employment.
"The affidavits in support of the motion include assertions of how the various agencies and institutions anticipate they may be adversely impacted by the mandate," the judge, a George W. Bush-appointee, wrote in an order issued Saturday. 
"In particular, the affidavits express opinions of agency heads who 'estimate' that they 'may' lose a certain percentage or a number of employees, or speculate as to the consequences they will suffer 'if widespread resignations were to occur,'" Rodgers wrote. "However, such opinions, absent supporting factual evidence, remain speculative and may be disregarded as conclusory."
The Biden administration health care worker policy, which is being implemented by the Department of Health and Human Services, requires that health care workers at certain providers that participate in Medicaid and Medicare be vaccinated against Covid-19, with the deadline for the first shot set for December 6. Florida filed a lawsuit in the Northern District of Florida challenging the policy earlier this month and had asked the court to block the HHS rule while the lawsuit proceeded. In its filings, the state claimed that Florida health care facilities were at risk for either losing federal funding or see staffing shortfalls due to employees' refusal to get vaccinated.
In at least two other cases brought by other states, courts are considering whether to issue preliminary orders blocking the mandate.
CNN's Steve Contorno contributed reporting.
New York (CNN Business)Nearly a dozen Congressional Democrats are urging President Joe Biden to combat high gas prices by not only releasing barrels from the US Strategic Petroleum Reserve but by banning US oil exports, according to a letter viewed by CNN. 
The letter sent Monday to Biden adds to the pressure the White House is facing even from its own party to lower prices at the pump that are angering Americans and contributing to the biggest inflation spike in decades.  
Calling the matter an "urgent issue," House Democrats led by California Rep. Ro Khanna called for Biden to ensure "affordable and reliable energy for American families." 
"We must use all tools at our disposal to bring down gasoline prices in the short term," reads the letter, which was also signed by eight other Democrats, including Reps. Barbara Lee, Katie Porter, Darren Soto and others. Senate Democrats sent Biden a similar letter earlier this month. 
'Not a panacea'
Biden could be ready to use one of those tools as soon as Tuesday.  
Biden hopes to announce his decision to release oil from the SPR in an economic speech on Tuesday, officials told CNN. However, the timing of such a move is contingent on the other nations finalizing their agreements to do the same, officials said.  
The specter of the United States, and potentially other nations, releasing emergency barrels has already helped to lower oil prices. After topping $85 a barrel in late October, US oil prices have declined about 10%. That in turn has helped put a lid on surging gasoline prices. The national average is $3.41 a gallon, roughly flat with a week ago, according to AAA. 
"Our primary responsibility is how do we bring the cost down for working class Americans," Khanna told CNN in a phone interview. "This is something that people are upset about. We need to address that concern." 
However, even proponents of tapping the SPR acknowledge it isn't a long-term fix. It's more of a band-aid.  
That's because there is a finite amount of oil in emergency reserves. And releasing barrels won't solve the underlying supply-demand imbalance caused by surging demand amid the economic recovery and lackluster supply from OPEC, the United States and other major producers.  
"It's not going to be a panacea. But we've got to do what we can," Khanna said in the interview.  
Would export ban help — or hurt?
But the House Democrats suggest Biden should seriously consider the more dramatic step of banning oil exports -- even though multiple industry experts have warned such a step could backfire on US consumers.  
"A ban on US crude oil exports will boost domestic supply and put downward pressure on prices for American families," the letter from House Democrats said.  
This idea has reached the top levels of the Biden administration. The soaring costs of gasoline so alarmed White House chief of staff Ron Klain at one point that he suggested taking the dramatic step of halting US oil exports to drive costs down, one official told CNN. Administration officials believe they could secure an agreement on a coordinated release that wouldn't require banning exports. 
However, Goldman Sachs told clients last month that an export ban would likely be "counterproductive" and have a "likely bullish impact" on retail fuel prices. 
That's because oil is a globally traded commodity and US gas prices are set by Brent, the world benchmark. If the world lost access to US barrels, Brent prices would likely rise due to less supply.  
And US oil refiners can't rely on domestic oil alone to produce the diesel, jet fuel and gasoline that the economy relies on. Refineries blend US oil with foreign barrels to churn out these products. 
Khanna cast doubt on the analysis from industry experts, arguing they could be conflicted in warning against oil export bans.
"It's a real stretch to argue that increasing domestic supply of a product is somehow bad for Americans," Khanna said.
Yet even Mark Zandi, an economist frequently cited by the White House, is skeptical. 
"I'm not a fan of banning oil exports," Zandi, the chief economist at Moody's Analytics, told CNN in an email. "I doubt it will meaningfully lower gasoline prices, as the price of gas is largely determined by global oil prices and not the price of domestically produced oil. It is also unclear whether domestic refineries would be able to efficiently process the type of oil that the U.S. exports." 

 (CNN)Then-President Donald Trump tested positive for Covid-19 three days ahead of his first 2020 presidential debate with Joe Biden -- though he also had a negative result in that same timeframe, according to excerpts from a forthcoming book from the former Republican president's chief of staff reported by The Guardian.
The previously unknown positive test is disclosed in Trump's former chief of staff Mark Meadows' memoir "The Chief's Chief," a copy of which was obtained by The Guardian ahead of the book's publication next week.
Trump said in a statement Wednesday, "the story of me having COVID prior to, or during, the first debate is Fake News. In fact, a test revealed that I did not have COVID prior to the debate."
CNN has reached out to Meadows and then-White House physician Dr. Sean Conley for comment.
Trump received the positive test on September 26, 2020, according to Meadows, The Guardian reported. That day Trump hosted a ceremony in the White House Rose Garden for Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett, which was later deemed a super spreader event, by medical experts. At least 12 people who attended the event tested positive.

Trump, who Meadows said looked "a little tired," was en route to a rally in Middletown, Pennsylvania, that night when Meadows received a call from Conley informing him that Trump tested positive for Covid-19, according to the excerpt. Meadows wrote that Conley told him, "Stop the president from leaving. He just tested positive for Covid."
Meadows claims in his book that the positive test was done with an old model kit, The Guardian reported.
Trump was subsequently tested with "the Binax system" an antigen test for Covid-19, and returned a negative result, Meadows wrote. It is unclear if the first test which returned the positive result was an antigen test or PCR test.
According to the FDA's guidelines, when using the Binax test, "Negative results do not rule out SARS-Covid-2 infection and should not be used as the sole basis for treatment or patient management decisions, including infection control decision."
Meadows wrote that Trump took the negative test as "full permission to press on as if nothing had happened," but Meadows instructed those in Trump's "immediate circle to treat him as if he was positive," The Guardian reports. 
"I didn't want to take any unnecessary risks," Meadows wrote, according to The Guardian, "but I also didn't want to alarm the public if there was nothing to worry about."
A former senior White House official told CNN that word had circulated inside the West Wing before the first presidential debate that Trump had tested positive for Covid. 
In between those dates, Trump appeared at a White House reception for Gold Star families and held a press briefing indoors on September 27, 2020. He also visited his golf club in Sterling, Virginia, earlier that day, according to pool reports.

The following day, Trump held an event on the South Lawn of the White House, where he met with workers from Lordstown Motors, and later appeared in the White House Rose Garden to hail a new testing strategy for coronavirus.
On September 29, 2020, Trump traveled to Cleveland for his first presidential debate against his Democratic challenger Joe Biden. Trump arrived too late to be tested ahead of the debate, according to Fox News' anchor Chris Wallace, who moderated the debate.
During the debate, Trump and Biden adhered to social distance protocols, but the two candidates -- both in their 70s -- were indoors in a room with dozens of people in the audience, some of whom were not masked.
Trump on September 30 traveled to Minnesota for an outdoor rally in Duluth and a private fundraiser in Minneapolis.
Trump announced early Friday, October 2, 2020 that he and first lady Melania Trump tested positive for Covid-19. He was hospitalized later that night.
According to the White House, Trump tested positive for the coronavirus on October 1, just two days after the debate. 
In a later interview with NBC News, Trump would not definitively say whether he was tested for Covid-19 on the day of his first debate against Biden and said he could not recall the last time he tested negative for coronavirus before testing positive on October 1. 
During a news conference on October 3, 2020, as Trump was receiving treatment at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center for Covid, Conley would not disclose Trump's last negative test for the virus, saying, "I'm not going to get into all the testing going back, but he and all his staff routinely are tested."
In his book, Meadows wrote that although he knew each candidate was required to test negative within 72 hours of the debate's start time "...Nothing was going to stop [Trump] from going out there," The Guardian reported. 
After the then-president announced he had Covid, Meadows was refusing to tell his own staffers the precise timeline of when Trump had tested positive at the time, the former senior White House official added.
The official went on to say the virus simply was not taken seriously by some senior aides.
Staffers were sometimes in meetings and around other aides before going home sick with Covid.
"There was a bizarre indifference about getting others sick among some people in the west wing," the official said. 
A separate aide also said Meadows was keeping staffers in the dark about exact details of Trump's illness.
Asked Wednesday about The Guardian report and whether he thought Trump put him at risk at the time, Biden told White House reporters, "I don't think about the former President."
This story has been updated with additional information. 
CNN's Gabby Orr and Kevin Liptak contributed to this reporting. 
 (CNN)President Joe Biden dispatched CIA Director Bill Burns to Moscow earlier this week to warn the Kremlin that the US is watching its buildup of troops near Ukraine's border closely, and to attempt to determine what is motivating Russia's actions.
The rare trip by Burns to Russia, where he held talks with senior Kremlin security officials directly involved in the military activity, came as the US has grown increasingly concerned by Russia's irregular movement of troops and equipment near Ukraine's northern border, according to multiple US and Ukrainian sources briefed on the meeting.
The Biden administration has ramped up its efforts in recent days to de-escalate growing tensions between Moscow and Kiev. Following his meetings in Russia, Burns spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky by phone in an attempt to diffuse those tensions, the sources told CNN. A senior State Department official was also dispatched to Kiev on Thursday to support those efforts.  
The flurry of high-level diplomacy underscores how seriously the Biden administration is taking the latest Russian troop movements, even after an earlier buildup in the spring ultimately did not lead to a renewed invasion. Tensions between Ukraine and Russia have also been exacerbated in recent weeks by a deepening Ukrainian energy crisis that Kiev believes Moscow has purposefully provoked. 
"The buildup, coupled with the energy blackmail, does suggest a more aggressive Russian posture," an adviser to Zelensky told CNN.
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said on Friday that the "scale" and "the size of the units that we're seeing" from Russia is "unusual."
"We continue to monitor this closely, and as I've said before, any escalatory or aggressive actions by Russia would be of great concern to the United States," he said.
Burns as key intermediary
Assessments on Russia's motives differ widely within the administration, with some sources telling CNN they believe Russia could be preparing for an invasion, while others suggest they are conducting an exercise, or simply trying to intimidate Ukraine. 
And publicly, Ukraine has downplayed the idea that Russia is building up its military presence near the border beyond normal levels. Russia has "established a practice of "transferring and accumulating military units for the purpose of maintaining tension in the region and political pressure on neighboring countries," Ukraine's Defense Ministry said on Tuesday.
But in an effort to prevent any kind of escalation, Biden dispatched Burns to Moscow on Tuesday, where he met with Kremlin officials to try to deter any plans for an offensive by conveying that the US is closely monitoring the troop movements, according to people briefed on their meeting. 
Burns also brought up US concerns that Russia is close to using its gas exports as leverage, with Ukraine and other European nations forecast to suffer energy crises heading into winter. 
After his meetings in Moscow, Burns called Zelensky on Wednesday to convey the administration's concerns over Russia's behavior and reassure him that the US is closely tracking the Russian activity, according to a person with direct knowledge of the call. 
Satellite images taken by Maxar Technologies on Monday demonstrate the kind of irregular Russian troop and equipment movements that US officials are worried about. The images show Russian troops, tanks and artillery massing near the Russian town of Yelnya, and the Biden administration is more concerned than it was in the spring that Russia could launch an invasion, two senior US officials said. 
In response to questions about the satellite images, Putin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters this week that "The movement of our military equipment or army units across the territory of the Russian Federation is exclusively our business." He added that "Russia has never threatened anyone, is not threatening, and does not pose a danger to anyone. But against the background of rather aggressive expansionist tendencies, especially on the part of NATO and other countries, Russia has always taken measures to ensure its security and will continue to do so." 
But one US official told CNN that the US has "serious concerns" about the Russian build up, adding, "It would be foolish for us not to be considering the possibility of an invasion or incursion."
Another State Department official and a senior congressional aide noted that the US concerns stem largely from the fact that Russia appears to be putting pieces into place should it want to take action against Ukraine quickly.
"It is certainly an unprecedented buildup, and if Russia wanted to invade Ukraine, it has the capability and capacity to overwhelm Ukrainian forces," the aide said. "With such a large buildup, Putin could order an invasion at any time and there would be very little warning." 
Intense outreach to allies
European diplomats in the US and Europe say that the US has been conducting intense outreach about Russia, an effort that began in just the last few days.
"The administration is very, very concerned—this is the most concerned I've heard them about Russia in a really, really long time," said one diplomat. "I wouldn't underestimate this. They're doing a massive outreach to raise awareness about this." 
The concerns the US is sharing are "pretty specific" said another diplomat, who echoed others in saying that they are now being carefully and closely examined in European capitals, where perceptions of the Russian threat vary. Even so, diplomats from five different European countries acknowledged that the trendline of Russian actions in relation to Ukraine have been worrying. 
Concerns over the Kremlin's intentions stem from Russia's invasion of the Crimean peninsula in 2014. The international community, led by the US, imposed sanctions on Russia for the subsequent illegal annexation of the Ukrainian territory, but the multilateral sanctions have done nothing to push Russia back from the peninsula. Putin has made clear his plans to keep Russian forces there, despite international opposition.
"They're definitely being taken very seriously," the second diplomat said. "There is clearly a trend line over here -- you can go back all the way to 2014, of course," when Russia invaded Crimea. "But since the spring of this year," a constellation of developments has drawn attention, including the Russian escalation around Ukraine, the only partial withdrawal of those troops, Russia's move to leave some military hardware behind on the border, and a sharpening of Russian rhetoric about Ukraine.
Diplomats noted an article President Vladimir Putin wrote this summer, which one diplomat described as a "revisionist manifesto" about Ukrainian history meant to fit Russian arguments and deny the foundation for a Ukrainian state. More recently, Dmitry Medvedev, deputy chairman of Russia's Security Council, wrote a similar article denigrating Ukraine and its leaders.  
Watching 'with all of our capabilities'
The administration is far from reaching a consensus on Russia's intentions, however, and other defense officials told CNN they have not seen indications that Russia is preparing for a sustained operation like an invasion. That would require supplies to be brought into the area like food, fuel and spare parts, the officials said.
Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Mark Milley said this week the US wasn't seeing anything to indicate an imminent Russian move on Ukraine, but he still expressed concern at the "significant amount" of military movements along the border. 
Speaking to NBC's Lester Holt at the Aspen Security Forum, Milley said the Russian activity was "nothing overtly aggressive per se," but he cautioned that the US is watching the movements "with all of our capabilities."
Ukrainian officials, meanwhile, say they do not believe the US has done enough to deter Russian aggression. Kiev has been pushing the US to do more to stop the Russia-Germany gas pipeline known as Nord Stream 2 from becoming fully operational, which will allow Russia to bypass Ukraine entirely when delivering gas to Europe and, Kiev argues, make Ukraine even more vulnerable to Russian advances. 
But the Biden administration waived some sanctions on Nord Stream 2 earlier this year, organized a summit with Putin in June, and has been trying to find common ground with Moscow on issues like ransomware and nuclear stability. 
"The best signal the administration could send to Russia right now, to show that there are repercussions for their behavior, would be to reverse course on Nord Stream 2," the Zelensky adviser said.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with Zelensky on the sidelines of the UN's climate summit earlier this week, where they discussed joint concerns about the unusual Russian military movement and the country's potentially coercive use of its energy supplies, a State Department official said. Those subjects will be revisited when Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba travels to Washington for talks with Blinken next week, the official said.
CNN's Oren Liebermann, Nicole Gaouette, Katie Bo Williams, Barbara Starr, Matthew Chance and Zahra Ullah contributed to this report.
A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.
London (CNN Business)News that prices for American consumers are rising at the fastest rate in three decades has spooked investors and economists, piling pressure on President Joe Biden and the Federal Reserve to respond more aggressively. 
What's happening: Biden and his team are now steeling themselves for high inflation to persist into 2022, a problem for Democrats ahead of next November's midterm elections. Senior Fed official Richard Clarida has indicated that if inflation stays elevated, the central bank could opt to hike interest rates next year.
Inflation is currently "much more than a moderate overshoot" of the Fed's 2% target, he said earlier this week. "I would certainly not consider a repeat performance a policy success," he continued.
Larry Summers, an economist who served in both the Obama and Clinton administrations, has been sounding the alarm on inflation for months.
"I think that the policymakers in Washington, unfortunately, have almost every month been behind the curve," Summers told CNN on Wednesday.
But not everyone thinks the Fed and the Biden administration need to change course dramatically. In fact, former Fed economist Claudia Sahm, a Summers critic, believes that America's economy still needs trillions of dollars in additional stimulus.
I asked her a few questions about this week's inflation data and the subsequent debate. Our Q&A has been condensed and lightly edited for clarity.
What's the big picture takeaway from the latest inflation data, in your view?
Big price increases in October, on top of higher-than-normal inflation since the summer, are unambiguously bad for consumers. But Covid, not inflation, is the problem. The rise and fall of cases throughout the pandemic has created immense disruptions in our economic and everyday lives.
What does a 6.2% annual increase in the Consumer Price Index say about the narrative that inflation is transitory?
The view that inflation would step back down this year was always based on the view that the pandemic would recede. Covid is still here, and as recently as a few months ago, it surged due to the Delta variant. Global supply chains are a mess, largely due to an insufficient global health response. There are no signs that the price increases due to Covid-related factors are spreading into other prices. Transitory means short-lived. As with the pandemic itself, we have been promised that it would get better soon, and it takes longer.
A number of other economists are pointing to rising rents as one example that price increases are broadening. Do you disagree with this assessment?
I disagree. House prices increased more slowly than usual during the pandemic due to eviction moratoriums, mortgage forbearance, and people waiting to move. The faster house price inflation now is basically a "getting back to normal." That normal is not good, but it is what we had before Covid.
Should the Fed stay the course? Or might it need to move faster?
The Fed decided to reduce the pace of asset purchases by $15 billion in November and December and then reevaluate at their next meeting. The world is changing quickly, and it is appropriate for them to get more data before deciding on the pace after that.
What should the response be in Congress and/or from the Biden administration? What are the implications for Biden's $1.9 trillion Build Back Better social spending package?
Congress needs to pass the Build Back Better legislation immediately. It is an investment in our children, low-wage workers, education, health care and fighting climate change. A half a year of higher-than-normal inflation is not a reason to squander this opportunity to act.
Two more big companies want to split themselves up
This week could mark the end of an era for more than one iconic conglomerate.
The latest: Japan's Toshiba outlined plans on Friday to break up into three independent companies, a pitch that involves spinning off its energy and infrastructure business as well as its device and storage business. 
The proposal follows a campaign by activist shareholders and a strategic review in the wake of a corporate governance scandal.
Toshiba (TOSBF) said Friday that it saw splitting the company as the best path forward.
"The decision allows each business to significantly increase its focus and facilitate more agile decision-making and leaner cost structures," it said in a statement.
The move by the 146-year-old conglomerate comes just days after General Electric said it would split into three separate public companies, spinning out its aviation, healthcare and energy businesses.
Step back: What's driving these storied conglomerates to try to dissemble themselves? One factor is the market, which currently favors streamlined operations over sprawling empires. 
Another is the role of more aggressive activist shareholders, who build up stakes and then lobby for companies to make large structural changes. 
There's more: Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) announced Friday that it's planning to split into two public companies, spinning off its division that sells Band-Aids and Tylenol. Shares are up 4% in premarket trading.
I'm also keeping an eye on Shell (RDSA), which is being lobbied by the hedge fund Third Point to separate its legacy fossil fuel business from its push into renewables. The company has rejected this proposal. But could other shareholders take Third Point's side?
North American companies are racing to order robots
The companies rushing to meet surging demand for goods while struggling to fill open positions are in a bind. Increasingly, they're turning to a new solution.
According to the Association for Advancing Automation, or A3, strong sales of robots over the summer brought the total number of orders in North America to 29,000 units so far this year. That's the highest level on record.
Breaking it down: The number of units sold is up 37% from the same period in 2020 and trumps the previous high set in 2017 by nearly 6%.
"With labor shortages throughout manufacturing, logistics and virtually every industry, companies of all sizes are increasingly turning to robotics and automation to stay productive and competitive," A3 President Jeff Burnstein said in a statement.
The group said it wasn't just carmakers placing orders. Nearly two-thirds of sales came from non-automotive industries, including metals and food and consumer goods.
Big picture: A3 advocates for the benefits of automation, arguing it makes workplaces safer and frees up people for more rewarding roles. Even if that's true in the long run, it could seriously shake up the job market in the immediate term — another way in which the post-pandemic economy could look very different.
Up next
Warby Parker reports results before US markets open.
Also today: The latest data on the number of Americans quitting their jobs, which has been at a record high, posts at 10 a.m. ET.
Coming next week: US President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping are expected to hold a virtual summit on Monday, the first such meeting between the leaders of the world's two largest economies.

 (CNN)The Biden administration plans to purchase 10 million doses of Pfizer's experimental antiviral Covid-19 pill and is finalizing the contract now, according to a source familiar with the plans. 
The announcement could come as soon as this week. 
The administration had initially planned to purchase about 5 million doses, but after seeing Pfizer's data, President Joe Biden wanted to double the order, the source told CNN on Tuesday.
Earlier this month Pfizer announced topline results from its trial saying that an interim analysis -- done before the trial was scheduled to end -- showed an 89% reduction in the risk of hospitalization or death from Covid-19 among people given the drug within the first three days of symptom onset.
The pill is to be administered in combination with an older antiviral drug called ritonavir and is meant to treat mild to moderate Covid-19 in patients at increased risk of hospitalization or death, the company has said.
Pfizer announced earlier Tuesday that it is seeking emergency use authorization from the US Food and Drug Administration for the pill and that it signed a licensing agreement to allow for broader global access to it. 
"With more than 5 million deaths and countless lives impacted by this devastating disease globally, there is an urgent need for life-saving treatment options. The overwhelming efficacy achieved in our recent clinical study of PAXLOVID, and its potential to help save lives and keep people out of the hospital if authorized, underscores the critical role that oral antiviral therapies could play in the battle against COVID-19," Albert Bourla, chairman and CEO of Pfizer, said in a statement.
The pill could prove to be an important tool in the Biden administration's coronavirus response as the US heads into colder months. 
New Covid-19 diagnoses are up in about half of US states over the past week, and hospitalizations are up in 11 states. 
"I don't know what's going to happen over the next few weeks. But I have a feeling it's not going to be pretty," Michael Osterholm, who heads the center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, recently told CNN. 
This story has been updated with additional information Tuesday.
CNN's Amanda Sealy and Paul LeBlanc contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)Just as Democrats face another round of hand-wringing about their erosion among working-class and rural White voters, the long-delayed congressional approval of a historic infrastructure plan will test President Joe Biden's central theory on how the party can reverse that decline which was highlighted by last week's daunting election results in Virginia and New Jersey.
Biden and many of his advisers have long argued the best way for Democrats to regain ground with blue-collar voters is to show that government can deliver them material benefits. The party is increasingly attempting to reach out to Hispanic blue-collar voters and even some Black ones -- not only the White blue-collar voters, who have drifted toward the GOP since the 1960s.
The bipartisan infrastructure plan, which Biden calls a "blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America," constitutes one prong of that plan, with spending designed to spur employment in such working-class occupations as construction, energy retrofits and manufacturing; the other prong is the massive spending bill the President still hopes to steer through Congress solely with Democratic votes by Thanksgiving. That proposal, experts say, tilts its benefits heavily toward working-class families across racial lines, including subsidies for child care and health care and an expanded child tax credit, as well as programs that would support potentially more than 1 million caregiving jobs. Just as importantly, the plans fund these new benefits primarily with higher taxes on corporations and the most affluent. 
In an extensive new study of working-class attitudes released last Friday, the veteran Democratic pollster Stanley B. Greenberg and firms specializing in Black and Hispanic voters argue that the combination -- new benefits for economically squeezed families, funded by confronting groups that have benefited from increasing economic inequality -- provides Democrats their best chance to improve with blue-collar voters of all races. 

"This polling and this collaboration is a wake-up call that says these people are desperate to have someone battle for them," says Greenberg, who became renowned in the mid-1980s for documenting the alienation from the Democratic Party of White blue-collar "Reagan Democrats" in Macomb County, outside Detroit. "They are only there [electorally] if you want to change the power balance ... if you want to make real big economic change, and you really understand their lives. And it's been a long time since they have seen that from Democrats." 
But the depth of the hole Democrats face with working-class White voters was underscored by last week's election losses in Virginia, where exit polls showed Republican gubernatorial nominee Glenn Youngkin, a wealthy former private equity executive, winning about three-fourths of Whites without college degrees, and in New Jersey, where the longtime Democratic president of the state Senate was swept away in a heavily blue-collar district by a Republican truck driver who had never before sought office. 
To many analysts, those outcomes underscore how many cultural barriers still limit Democrats among White blue-collar voters, even if they can deliver more kitchen-table assistance. 
"There are a lot of things that are in the reconciliation package that will be very beneficial ... to the White working class and non-White working class," says Alan Abramowitz, an Emory University political scientist who recently published a study on attitudes among working-class White voters. "But it doesn't seem to matter, because it's not what they are voting on. What they are voting on is that they are much more closely aligned with Republicans across a whole range of issues, that arrays from cultural issues that get a lot of play to racial issues, immigration." 
Virtually no analyst in either party believes that Democrats, whatever strategy they follow, can win a majority of working-class White voters. (No Democratic presidential candidate has done so since Lyndon Johnson in 1964, polls show). But the difference between a normally disappointing midterm for the party holding the White House and a catastrophic result that could lock Democrats out of congressional power for years may come down to whether they can regain any ground with working-class voters of all races from the direct economic benefits that the infrastructure plan will deliver -- and that the reconciliation plan could deliver if Democrats overcome the intractable internal disagreements that have stalled its approval for months.
Tracking Democratic erosion
White voters without four-year college degrees functioned as the brawny backbone of the Democrats' "New Deal" electoral coalition from the 1930s through the 1960s. The party's erosion with those voters after that, largely around issues of racial equity and cultural change, generated enormous alarm and internal debate during the 1970s and especially 1980s: The centrist "New Democrat" movement led by Bill Clinton was sparked mostly by the desire to win back more blue-collar and rural Whites.
From roughly 1992 through 2008, Democrats settled into a sustainable equilibrium with these voters. In national exit polls over that period, Democratic presidential candidates consistently won only about two-fifths of them, but they typically captured significantly higher percentages in the key Rust Belt battleground states (such as Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania). Over this period, Democrats were able to overcome their deficits with working-class Whites in the Rust Belt and beyond by maximizing their performance among college-educated White voters and people of color, both of whom were growing as a share of the electorate, while blue-collar Whites were shrinking nationally on average about 2 to 3 percentage points every four years. (Those working-class Whites have fallen from about 52% of all voters in 2004 to just under 40% last year, according to census results.)
But since 2012, Democrats' position with these working-class White voters has slipped further, in a manner that has grown more difficult to overcome with improved performance and turnout among other groups, especially in less diverse industrial battlegrounds. The Democrats' national vote share among them fell to a little over one-third in President Barack Obama's 2012 election before cratering to just below 30%, according to multiple data sources, in Donald Trump's 2016 victory over Hillary Clinton; as important, Trump erased enough of the Democratic blue-collar overperformance in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania to capture all three states and squeak out his Electoral College win while losing the national popular vote.

In 2020, Democrats slightly recovered among non-college-educated White voters, with Biden winning about one-third of them nationally and recapturing just enough to help flip back the three pivotal Rust Belt states that had keyed Trump's win. But the 2020 results opened a new vein of anxiety for Democrats, with some evidence that Trump had gained among working-class Hispanic voters, too, especially men.  
Last week's results triggered new Democratic alarms about the trends with these non-college and non-urban voters, particularly Whites. Youngkin pushed his vote share past 80% in multiple rural southwestern Virginia counties and captured fully 76% of all non-college Whites statewide, according to the exit poll conducted by Edison Research for a consortium of media organizations including CNN. Close to three-fourths of those non-college Whites disapproved of Biden's job performance, according to results provided by the CNN polling unit.
In part, Youngkin ran so well with non-college-educated Whites in Virginia because half of them identified as evangelical Christians, a devoutly Republican constituency: Youngkin carried more than 9 in 10 of those White evangelicals without college degrees, the CNN polling unit found in previously unreported results. That's a common deficit for Democrats across the South, where evangelicals compose a relatively larger share of the working-class White population and often vote for Republicans in such overwhelming proportions.
More ominous for Democrats was the Virginia outcome among the half of non-college White voters there who are not evangelicals -- a group that is more populous in the key Rust Belt battlegrounds. In 2018, the exit polls found that Democrats carried a majority of those voters in House races nationwide; in 2020, the exit polls and other post-election analyses found that Biden won 42% to 45% of them. But Youngkin last week carried fully 65% of them, holding McAuliffe to just 35%, a result that presages ominous losses for Democrats across the Midwest if it holds through the midterm elections.
'This bill is for you'
Avoiding such an outcome is the goal of the study released last Friday by Democracy Corps (a group founded by Greenberg and longtime Democratic strategist James Carville), Equis Research (which focuses on Hispanic voters) and HIT Strategies (which concentrates on African Americans and millennials). Based on extensive online polling conducted through late October in battleground states, the poll portrays Democrats facing towering discontent in line with the dismal results from Virginia and New Jersey. "Democrats," the authors write in a memo summarizing the results, "begin weak on crime, immigration, the economy, who is best on jobs and wages, losing to Trump on who is better at delivering for the forgotten Americans."
The party's best chance to reverse those perceptions, the authors argue, is to deliver policies that address "people's acute economic needs (Medicare expansion & lower health insurance premiums and the expanded child tax credit delivered monthly)" and, just as important, to send a signal of their allegiance by funding those initiatives through higher taxes on big corporations and the wealthy. In testing that message, Greenberg said in an interview, "I was stunned by how much of an audience [Democrats] got." He added: "For decades, [working class voters] have not heard a Democratic Party that is upset with the status quo, really wakes up every day wanting big economic change, wanting changes in economic power, wanting workers to have more of a say and higher incomes."
Terrance Woodbury, CEO and founding partner at HIT Strategies, says legislative progress on the party's economic agenda is critical not only to holding working-class White voters but also to motivating the intermittent African American voters who surged to the polls against Trump in 2018 and 2020. Biden's favorability, he says, has fallen more among those voters than more reliable (and usually older) Black voters. Those surge voters, Woodbury says, have "an acute awareness that they were responsible for or contributed to the Democratic power in Washington, and they just aren't seeing any results yet." 

These consultants' advice to stress kitchen-table economic assistance to working-class families of all races fits squarely with the plans of White House and Democratic congressional leaders, who see touting the infrastructure plan and broader reconciliation bill (if they can finally pass it) as their best chance to avoid severe midterm losses next year. 
"For all of you at home who feel left behind and forgotten in an economy that's changing so rapidly -- this bill is for you," Biden declared after the House finally approved the infrastructure plan last week. Adam Hersh, who analyzed the infrastructure and reconciliation plans for the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute, projects the plans would create about 4 million jobs, and that about four-fifths of them would not require college degrees.
Still, many political analysts and operatives remain skeptical that Democrats can regain much ground with working-class White voters in particular so long as Republicans are stressing an ever-mutating roster of issues that inflame the anxiety many of them feel about cultural and demographic change. With help from conservative media, Youngkin, for instance, focused enormous attention on a backlash among some White parents over how racial issues should be discussed in Virginia schools.
For working-class White voters, "a lot of these issues are tied in with this sense of racial and cultural grievance," says Abramowitz. "There's a sense they don't like the way the country is changing, they think Democrats and liberals are catering to non-Whites and immigrants and they are not looking out for their interests. Even when they are offering them policies that would benefit them, you can't seem to penetrate that."
A reckoning for Democrats
Given those barriers, a diffuse constellation of Democratic thinkers and operatives have lately coalesced behind a distant echo of the arguments from the "New Democrats" and the Democratic Leadership Council during the 1980s. They maintain the party will face further losses in 2022 and 2024 unless it more explicitly repudiates the most aggressive positions from its left flank, particularly on racially infused issues including "critical race theory" and "defunding the police." 
In Republican-leaning states and districts, "Democratic candidates have to forcibly separate themselves from the Democratic brand" on cultural questions, says Andrew Levison, a contributing editor at The Democratic Strategist, a website that debates the party's choices. He argues that "a reckoning does have to be done with certain elements of the progressive wing of the party" and that Biden should directly renounce some left-leaning ideas on race the way Bill Clinton did in 1992, when he criticized the rapper Sister Souljah. "Standing up for certain traditional cultural principles against the left might help Biden establish his own bona fides" for 2024, says Levison. "He can't really ride on 'Amtrak Joe.' "
To Democratic groups rooted in the nation's rapidly growing minority communities, this approach represents both a moral and electoral dead end. They argue that downplaying demands for racial equity is unlikely to win back many working-class Whites, but will inexorably depress turnout among the irregular young non-White voters who contributed so significantly to the Democratic gains in 2018 and 2020. Instead, they argue that Democrats should stress the material benefits their programs would produce -- and then directly attack the Republican use of racial issues as an attempt to divert attention from their opposition to such programs. 
"Instead of ignoring race while Republicans beat us silly with it, Democrats must confront it and explain that powerful elites and special interests use race as a tool of division to distract hardworking people of all races while they get robbed blind," Tory Gavito and Adam Jentleson, two leading Democratic strategists in this camp, wrote after the Virginia result.

As Greenberg acknowledges, whatever approach Democrats follow, or whatever agenda they pass, the party will still face strong headwinds among working-class voters of all races next year unless they also see improvement in the immediate conditions concerning them, from inflation and Covid to crime. "A lot depends on what is really happening a year from now," he says. 
That dynamic was underscored by a CNN poll released Monday that showed about three-fifths of Americans (and nearly three-fourths of non-college-educated Whites) say that Biden, who has spent weeks caught in the party's legislative quagmire, has not focused on the issues that most concern them.
The nearly unbroken pattern since the Civil War of midterm House losses for the president's party also suggests that even a brighter national mood might not prevent Democrats from surrendering at least that chamber. The bigger question for Democrats may be whether the kitchen-table agenda embodied in the infrastructure and reconciliation plans will help Biden, or another nominee, win in 2024 by holding enough working-class Whites and Hispanics otherwise drawn to conservative Republican cultural messages.
Lynn Vavreck, a UCLA political scientist and co-author of the book "Identity Crisis," about the 2016 election, says that whatever Democrats do, attitudes toward cultural and racial change are likely to overshadow economics as the principal driver of most people's political loyalties. "That's where we are now," she says. "We are not going back to fighting over the New Deal. We are going to fight over this for the foreseeable future."
But, she notes, because the country is so closely divided, particularly in the states at the tipping point of the Electoral College and Senate control, even if Democrats can move only a small number of working-class voters by delivering more material benefits to them, that shift could have a huge impact. 
"Can you make a big enough dent to win the 2024 presidential election?" she asked, before answering her own question: "Yeah, because you don't need to [change] that many votes."

Julian Zelizer, a CNN political analyst, is a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University and author of the book, "Abraham Joshua Heschel: A life of Radical Amazement." Follow him on Twitter @julianzelizer. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN.
 (CNN)In a speech at the Port of Baltimore this week, President Joe Biden acknowledged that inflation was "worrisome." With consumer prices increasing 6.2% over the last 12 months, the administration understands that it has a problem on its hands. Of course, the primary concern is the economic health of the nation. 
But inflation will also be a big political problem for the Democrats in the midterm campaigns. For all the attention that has been paid to education wars, the anti-vaccination movement or the fallout from Afghanistan, prices might turn out to be the biggest issue going into 2022. The consumer sentiment index, which measures how optimistic consumers feel about their financial prospects and the economy, has fallen to the lowest levels in a decade, according to early November data collected by the University of Michigan. Many Americans fear the worst, despite the positive signs, which include a strong job market.   
From the second half of the 20th century onward, Republicans have used the issue of inflation to combat liberalism. If Biden doesn't do more to address inflation, and if it doesn't ease up by the time 2022 rolls around, we will see the GOP weaponizing this issue against Democrats and the liberal agenda once more -- with great success, if history is any indication.
In 1952, for example, Republican presidential candidate Dwight Eisenhower focused on prices as a central theme of his campaign, in addition to anti-Communism, the conflict in Korea and the fall of China. After a report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics found the cost of living was rising, the Republican platform included a line that blamed the Truman administration for "wanton extravagance and inflationary policies." 
Facing off against Adlai Stevenson, who won the Democratic nomination after President Harry Truman decided that he would not run for reelection, Eisenhower produced the first-ever televised political ads, many of which focused on rising prices. 
In a series of clips titled "Eisenhower Answers America," the candidate responded to questions from Americans, many of whom wanted help with their daily costs of living. In a staged conversation, one woman complained that she had paid 24 dollars for a small bag of groceries that she held up to the camera. "You know what things cost today," another older woman said, "High prices are just driving me crazy." Meanwhile, Republicans blamed inflation on New Deal spending and other government programs.
The issue of inflation was front and center yet again in the 1966 midterm campaigns, when the conservative coalition of southern Democrats and Republicans hoped to rebound from their devastating losses in the 1964 election, which ushered in President Lyndon B. Johnson and the Great Society. There were a number of issues that conservatives used in the midterms to cut into Johnson's huge majorities, with the prices of household items being one of them. 
Even though inflation was under 3%, conservatives argued that growing federal deficits were provoking inflation by pouring too much federal money into the economy. Although inflation remained very low by historical standards, they pointed to the fact that the consumer price index rose by 0.5% in February 1966 -- the largest increase for any February since 1951 during the Korean War. 
The price crunch was most apparent in the supermarket. Pork chops, for instance, rose from 65 cents a pound in 1965 to 89 cents a pound in 1966. Besides meat, the price of transportation, medical care and household services increased during this time. 
According to one internal White House poll, 76% of Californians gave the President unfavorable ratings because of the way he handled the cost of living. President Johnson said that in the 1950s it had been impossible for any politician to visit a home without being asked, "What do you think about McCarthy? In 1966, the inevitable question became: "What do you think about inflation?"
The Republican Campaign Committee seized the opportunity and sent out pamphlets that criticized "Great Society play money" and pictured Johnson with the sarcastic words, "Progress is a shrinking dollar." Senate Minority Leader Everett Dirksen stumped for his fellow Republicans in the midterm elections, saying, "Every housewife who shops in a grocery store knows this. They are the living, breathing signs of this destructive burglarizing force." 
With the issue of inflation on voters' minds, Democrats suffered substantial losses in the midterms. While Democrats retained control of Congress, the size of the conservative coalition grew substantially. Republicans gained 47 seats in the House and 3 seats in the Senate, well above what most pundits were predicting.   
Inflation would remain an integral part of the conservative playbook in years to come. In 1980, when inflation rose to about 14% while economic growth slowed and the country struggled with stagflation, as it was called -- Republican presidential nominee Ronald Reagan made sure to keep reminding voters about prices. In one ad, a voice-over blamed President Jimmy Carter for astronomically high inflation rates. 
In 2021, inflation has once again become a topic of the national conversation, with widespread concern over supply chain disruptions, the price of consumer goods, and the potential for higher interest rates. 
It's not just that prices are rising -- businesses and consumers alike have experienced the supply chain bottleneck firsthand. Unless conditions change soon, these problems are likely to become a key message of the Republican midterm campaign. This is an issue that hits home, and the GOP will have little trouble riling up voters against the current administration and its policies.  
It might be true, as the economist Paul Krugman argues, that this spike is a short-term phenomenon, more akin to what the United States experienced in 1947 than 1979. 
Regardless, inflation remains a serious political problem for President Biden. 
For the sake of Democrats, the President will have to do more than say the situation is worrisome. He will need to forcefully address how he is dealing with these concerns and how his policies will help to alleviate, rather than aggravate, the underlying pressures causing Americans to pay more for their goods.  

Robert Redford is a director, actor, producer and environmental activist. He co-founded The Redford Center with his late son James Redford in 2005 -- a nonprofit organization that uses the power of storytelling to galvanize environmental justice and regeneration. The opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author. View more opinion articles on CNN. 
 (CNN)I was 11 years old when I left Los Angeles for the first time. My mother, wanting to celebrate my recovery from a mild case of polio, drove us to Yosemite National Park.
It's been more than seven decades, but I still remember our car emerging from the nearly mile-long Wawona Tunnel and seeing the famous landscape of Yosemite from Inspiration Point. I knew immediately that I was somewhere special. 
Since then, I've been fortunate to travel to national parks across the country. I've even created films about many of them. In doing so, I've come to learn that our national parks not only protect our country's most spectacular natural wonders but also its stories and its history.
Once I had a family of my own, I drove my children around the US to experience these places themselves. One of our favorite spots was Chaco, a remote canyon in the American Southwest. 
Within Chaco, we could explore the remains of what was once the center of a bustling and sophisticated Puebloan civilization that existed hundreds of years before Europeans first set foot on this continent. We were drawn to the history of the area, where we'd learn how Chaco's famous ancient structures spread across the remote desert landscape, a place to which many tribal nations and communities maintain active connections today.
We explored the remains of structures built at least a millennium earlier, designs that would have stood taller and larger than anything built for hundreds of years afterward. Moving across the sun-weathered terrain, we would take in a place so remarkable it was made a World Heritage site by UNESCO.
Being up close to this ancient history can make you feel small. And you feel your connection to the land while treading the same paths that others walked more than a thousand years ago to reach what was, to them, the center of their world.
Today, we look back in awe at their monumental achievements. Sometimes, I wonder what they would think if they could look forward in time and see how we've treated the natural world.
Chaco Culture National Historical Park protects around 33,000 acres in the area, but the magic of Chaco is spread out beyond that. The National Parks Conservation Association estimates that as many as 5,000 sacred Chacoan cultural and historical sites lay outside of the protective shield of the park.
Unfortunately, these sacred and unprotected landscapes around Chaco have long been targeted for oil and gas drilling that desecrates what was once the center of an ancient civilization, and a part of the history of our continent and our species.
I have feared for Chaco many times over the last few decades as proposals to drill for oil on the landscape were continuously granted. Temporary reprieves won by tribes and conservation groups averted some proposals. But despite those efforts, sacred lands and important archeological places still became drilling sites, bringing with them access roads and heavy-goods vehicles that cut through even more of the landscape.
This is why this month's announcement that the Biden administration is finally taking an important step toward protecting one of the world's most culturally influential landscapes is so significant. The proposal for a 20-year ban of new oil and gas drilling on federal lands within a 10-mile radius around Chaco Culture National Historical Park is necessary.
This landscape -- and others like it -- tells a story about the history of our country and humankind itself. Ancient people would travel for hundreds of miles to reach this cultural center, which has left behind archeological mysteries that continue to perplex us more than a thousand years later. These places remain sacred to the Pueblo and Navajo communities, and they should be incredibly important to all of us.
There are many places with such rich histories around our nation. And while I am thankful that Chaco Canyon will now get the protection it deserves, we must do better in protecting the sacred lands of those who were here long before us.
The Badger-Two Medicine area south of Glacier National Park has been the spiritual home and cultural center for the Blackfeet Nation for thousands of years, but tribal members and many others are still fighting to permanently heal and protect the lands that were targeted more than 30 years ago for oil drilling.
Avi Kwa Ame in the Nevada desert is a sacred landscape for 10 Yuman-speaking tribes, as well as the Hopi and Chemehuevi Paiute. For many in the area, it is where all life was created. It has petroglyphs that date back centuries, and yet it is routinely threatened by reckless proposals for new energy development.
Not even the Grand Canyon -- America's most famous natural attraction -- is safe. The Havasupai tribe, who live within the Canyon on their traditional lands, are still bravely fighting an epic battle to permanently protect their land from uranium mining on lands surrounding the park that threatens their only source of water.
The United States is not even 250 years old. Meanwhile, these places collectively hold thousands of years' worth of history, culture and stories. We must preserve these lands.
Even as an 11-year-old at Yosemite, I knew immediately I was somewhere awe-inspiring, and I still get that feeling to this day every time I visit Chaco Canyon. Some places are too special.

This story was excerpted from the November 15 edition of CNN's Meanwhile in America, the daily email about US politics for global readers. Click here to read past editions and subscribe.
 (CNN)Never in the modern histories of the United States and China has antagonism been so high ahead of a major leaders' summit. 
President Joe Biden and President Xi Jinping will meet virtually on Monday after a tumultuous start to the Biden administration's turn to manage relations with Beijing. After years insisting the US is not trying to contain China, no one in Washington is pretending anymore. 
While Beijing would prefer that Washington mind its own business, the list of US complaints is long and growing. Most alarming is China's intense pressure on the self-governing island of Taiwan amid a gathering debate in Washington about what to do in case of an invasion and deep concern about China's build-up of conventional and nuclear weapons. Biden's administration also accuses Xi's government of overplaying its hand in territorial disputes in the South China Sea, committing genocide against Uyghur Muslims in Xinjiang province, and eviscerating democracy in Hong Kong. It's also frustrated that China has not done more to explain the origins of Covid-19 in Wuhan. 
The two leaders come into the talks -- taking place online because Xi hasn't left China since the pandemic erupted -- in contrasting political positions. 
Xi has moved aggressively to cement his own power, and is expected to secure an almost unprecedented third five-year term next year after the Communist Party elevated him to the same symbolic stature as former leaders Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping. 
Biden -- who unlike Xi has to deal with the complications of democracy -- is struggling to stabilize a presidency hammered by the aftermath of the pandemic and a perfect storm of rising inflation and gas prices that dented his approval ratings, though he has made strides in reinvigorating US alliances with an eye on China. Economic concerns weigh on both.  

Given the vast gulf between the sides, and the political imperative for both leaders to stand firm against the other right now, it's unlikely that tangible steps to ease tensions will emerge from the talks. But an understanding not to let tensions get even worse would be a start. 
'An opportunity for the two leaders to discuss how to responsibly manage competition'
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Friday rang up his Chinese counterpart, Foreign Minister Wang Yi, in preparation for their bosses' freighted summit. 
"The meeting presents an opportunity for the two leaders to discuss how to responsibly manage competition between the United States and the (People's Republic of China) while working together in areas where interests align," a readout of the call released by the US State Department readout said.

Washington (CNN)Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg on Sunday tried to tamp down the idea that he and Vice President Kamala Harris are starting to quietly compete to be the future standard-bearer of the Democratic Party, saying their focuses are on their roles in the nearly year-old Biden administration. 
The comments from Buttigieg, who competed against Harris -- and Joe Biden -- for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination come after CNN and other outlets detailed how allies of the vice president saw Buttigieg as unfairly boosted by the West Wing as she was repeatedly sidelined.
Buttigieg, pressed by NBC on whether a rivalry was emerging between himself and Harris, said: "No, because she and I are part of a team that is disciplined and doesn't focus on what's obsessing the commentators."
"We're too busy with a job to do -- she as a leader in this administration, with her leadership role, and I, and the President, and everybody else in the Cabinet and across the administration, are laser focused on getting the job done," he added.
As the two administration members who also vied for the Democratic nomination, many have speculated that, if President Joe Biden decides not to run for a second term, Buttigieg and Harris may be poised for a rematch in a 2024 Democratic primary or the 2028 contest. 
Buttigieg and Harris weren't always at odds prior to the presidential election, with the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, helping Harris, then the vice presidential nominee, prepare for her 2020 debate against then-Vice President Mike Pence, a fellow Hoosier. 
"There's no room to get caught up in the parlor games, and I'm proud to be part of the Biden-Harris team," Buttigieg told NBC, saying his focus as Transportation secretary remained on the job at hand. 
CNN reported last week that Harris loyalists are growing increasingly frustrated by how the West Wing has handled right-wing attacks on Buttigieg as compared to the amount of help she's gotten during various episodes.  
"It's hard to miss the specific energy that the White House brings to defend a White man, knowing that Kamala Harris has spent almost a year taking a lot of the hits that the West Wing didn't want to take themselves," said a former Harris aide, reflecting conversations last month among several former aides and current allies.

 (CNN)President Joe Biden hopes to announce his decision to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve on Tuesday during a speech at the White House, officials tell CNN, but the timing of such a move is still contingent on other nations finalizing their agreements. 
The United States has asked China, India, Japan and South Korea to join in a coordinated effort to release reserves of crude oil. The Biden administration hopes such a move would help combat soaring gasoline prices and fears of inflation -- or at least show the President is focusing on addressing what has become one of his steepest political challenges.
If successful, such an agreement could help keep a lid on gasoline prices heading into the holiday travel season and relieve some of the political pressure, at least in the short term, that the White House has been feeling over the energy crunch, which officials believe is directly linked to inflation. 
Two officials say a final US decision hasn't been made -- simply because it is intended to be coordinated with other nations in what would be a unique effort -- but they hope it will be finalized by late Monday evening. When asked about a possible decision, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said she didn't want to "get ahead of any process."
"I don't have anything to preview for you on this," Psaki said. "But I will say that of course, we're going to continue regardless to press OPEC to ensure that the supply out there meets the demand."
The President is scheduled to deliver remarks Tuesday afternoon "on the economy and lowering prices for the American people," according to the White House schedule, just hours before he is set to leave for a Thanksgiving break on Nantucket off the coast of Massachusetts. 
In recent weeks, Biden had been privately advised that tapping into the reserve wouldn't do much to alleviate the current problems, though some Democratic lawmakers argued it could provide temporary relief at the pump. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer has been among the Democrats leading the charge.
But the option remained on the table, given Biden had few others, as officials believed coordinating with other countries could potentially have more of an impact. 
One step he took last week was to ask the Federal Trade Commission to investigate whether illegal activity by oil and gas companies is contributing to higher gasoline prices. The top oil industry group, the American Petroleum Institute, slammed the move as a "distraction" from Biden's own policies they believe are exacerbating the crisis. 
The administration has been facing reluctance from OPEC+ to ramp up oil production to meet rising demand. Coordinating with the other nations would be an attempt to undermine the cartel's control of the market.
"The thinking has been, we can do this alone, or we can do it internationally—and the latter would be much more effective, especially when it comes to sending a message to the Saudis," said one senior official involved in the discussions. 
Biden and his aides have been pushing Beijing, in particular, to release its reserves, arguing that it is in their interests as much as the United States' to try to stabilize oil prices, officials familiar with the matter said. China has signaled in recent days that it is moving toward such a release, which one Biden official characterized as a "major victory" for the administration.  
"China is in a tough spot," said Bob McNally, president of the energy consulting firm Rapidan Energy. "It's a balancing act. China sees its future as linked to the Persian Gulf. They want investment. They want ties. They don't want to piss off the authorities there. But they also want to make Biden happy. The real threat to Xi Jinping's hold on power would come from an economic collapse from an escalation in tensions with the United States." 
A coordinated release would also show Saudi Arabia and OPEC that the US was serious when it warned that it would act if OPEC didn't, the officials said. 
Biden officials have warned the Saudis for weeks that the US would find alternative solutions if the price of crude oil topped $85 a barrel, officials said, which it did late last month. But Saudi Arabia has stood firm in refusing to increase output and has priced in -- wrongly, in the view of US officials -- the possibility that the US reaches a nuclear deal with Iran, two US officials said. The Saudis' concern is that sanctions on Iran would then be rolled back, allowing the country to ramp up its oil production and compete with OPEC+.
The political ramifications of the high costs spurred the White House to make the energy issue a top priority in recent weeks, sources said. The soaring costs of gasoline across the country so alarmed White House chief of staff Ron Klain at one point that he suggested taking the dramatic step of halting US oil exports to drive costs down, one official said. That's despite the fact that Wall Street banks and industry experts have warned that banning oil exports would backfire, causing gasoline prices to go higher, not lower.
But the White House has viewed the energy crisis as a national security issue as much as an economic and political issue, as reflected in the makeup of the group that has been working on it extensively in recent weeks. 
A small group of top Biden advisers, led by national security adviser Jake Sullivan and National Economic Council Director Brian Deese, have been meeting regularly to try to determine how best to combat the rising prices. Sullivan and his deputy, Jon Finer, have been overseeing the meetings with Deese, senior energy adviser Amos Hochstein and Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm and her deputy, David Turk.
Senior National Security Council officials Brett McGurk and Kurt Campbell have also played key supporting roles, engaging their counterparts in the Middle East and Asia-Pacific to try to encourage more cooperation with the US on the issue, officials said. 
Domestic oil producers have signaled to Biden that they would be willing to ramp up production if asked. But the White House has been wary of the optics of the President and his aides pushing for more domestic oil production on the heels of the major UN climate summit COP26, where Biden promised that the US would "lead by example" on clean energy initiatives. 
Administration officials now believe that, at least in the short term, they could secure a significant arrangement with China, Japan, India and South Korea that won't require halting US exports or asking domestic oil producers to boost supply. 
Still, releasing barrels from emergency reserves is not a long-term solution because it doesn't solve the underlying supply-demand mismatch, experts say. Emergency reserves hold a finite amount of oil -- and those barrels are typically reserved for supply shocks like natural disasters or wars, not surging demand from an economic recovery.
Goldman Sachs told clients late last week that a coordinated release would only "provide a short-term fix to a structural deficit" in the oil market. And the Wall Street bank argued a coordinated release is now "fully priced in," meaning the market impact has already occurred.
But even the threat of tapping the SPR, and having other countries do the same, has already successfully helped to lower oil prices, administration officials said. 

The life and legacy of Colin Powell, the first Black US secretary of state, was honored during his funeral service on Friday, November 5.
Former presidents, dignitaries and friends gathered for the service at Washington National Cathedral, which was closed to the public.
Powell died on October 18 due to complications from Covid-19 at the age of 84. Though he was fully vaccinated against Covid-19, Powell, who had multiple myeloma and Parkinson's, was immunocompromised, putting him at greater risk to the virus.
Coronavirus safety measures will be followed to protect the health of the attendees, according to the cathedral, which has hosted the funerals of top Washington officials and public servants.
Paul Begala, a Democratic strategist and CNN political commentator, was a political consultant for Bill Clinton's presidential campaign in 1992 and served as a counselor to Clinton in the White House. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. View more opinion articles on CNN.
 (CNN)Democrats, who have dominated Virginia for years -- and who won the Old Dominion in a landslide for Joe Biden just a year ago -- were washed away in a red tide. They lost both the governorship and the lieutenant governorship. It was a wipeout.
Why? That is the question that will dominate Democrats' chatter as they gather over their organic, GMO-free, chai tea with soy milk. The denial caucus will tell us to pay no attention to an off-off year election. They'll probably say Terry McAuliffe ran a bad campaign. Baloney. And that the Virginia election was just a heartburn. I say it's more like a heart attack.
I believe the Dems' defeat was a result of history, Democratic divisions and a Republican Party that is learning how to exploit racial and cultural issues ... without wholeheartedly embracing Donald Trump.
In 11 of the last 12 elections, Virginia has elected a governor from the party opposite of the president. The one exception: McAuliffe, who won in 2013, the year after Barack Obama won re-election. Pumping the brake pedal is a sensible reaction for many Virginians.
It's sensible to many other Americans as well. The party of a newly-elected president usually gets hammered in the next midterm election. Donald Trump's GOP lost 41 House seats in 2018. Barack Obama's Democrats dropped 63.  Biden's Democrats can't afford to lose more than three if they want to retain control of the House.   
But brake-pedal equilibrium is just the beginning of the Democrats' challenges. There is also the circular firing squad formed by congressional Democrats, which both depressed the Democratic base and alienated the suburban swing voters on whom their majority rested. 
Every day, those progressive Democrats bemoaned a cherished priority that was being cut from Biden's infrastructure bill -- laments that depressed core Democrats. Not to be outdone, moderate Democrats focused on the trillion-dollar-plus price tag, which told suburban voters that they needed to hit the brakes on spending.
The final factor that swung the commonwealth was a GOP nominee who was savvy (or, some might say, cynical) enough to embrace much of former president Donald Trump's agenda to rally the MAGA crowd, but was different enough stylistically to reassure suburbanites.  
Democrats often win by focusing on kitchen-table economic issues. Republicans, on the other hand, win when middle-class voters are more concerned about cultural issues. Since the Democrats were not able to deliver on kitchen-table economics, the GOP was able to drive a wedge into the Democratic coalition with cultural issues.  
Glenn Youngkin shamelessly exploited racial divisions with his virtually fact-free assertion that critical race theory is poisoning the minds of the schoolchildren of Virginia. "We actually have this critical race theory moved into all of our schools in Virginia," he dishonestly claimed. Never mind that Politifact reports that "Critical race theory is not mentioned in Virginia's Standards of Learning." 
Critical Race Theory was a dog whistle. In fact, some progressives have argued that CRT stands for Creating Racial Tension. I agree. But cynical, divisive racial appeals find more fertile soil when Democrats can't deliver.  The middle-class American Dream is why God created the Democratic Party. 
If DC Dems can't unite and make life better for working families, they will be swept away in the same flood that wiped them out in Virginia. 

Julian Zelizer, a CNN political analyst, is a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University and author of the book, "Abraham Joshua Heschel: A life of Radical Amazement." Follow him on Twitter @julianzelizer. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN.
 (CNN)President Joe Biden is getting closer to another major victory in what could be a legislative hat trick to round out his first year in office. After House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy delayed a vote in the lower chamber with an eight-hour speech last night, Democrats passed the Build Back Better Act, which is now expected to undergo major revisions in the Senate. 
Democrats, who have a razor-thin majority in the upper chamber, will have to see if they can get Democratic Senators Joe Manchin and Kyrsten Sinema on board. Although the Congressional Budget Office issued a better-than-expected score which should help ease any reservations the two moderate senators might have about the overall cost, it is still far from clear whether Democrats can seal the deal. 
Passing the legislation would count as a landmark achievement. The $1.9 trillion bill would drastically expand the social safety net and help fight climate change by providing subsidies for health care and childcare, free and universal preschool for 3- and 4-year-olds, along with new tax credits for clean energy, investments in electric vehicles, and funding for environmental conservation. The bill will would also allow the federal government to negotiate the prices of prescription drugs for older Americans on Medicare, provide new and improved affordable housing, include subsidies to make high-speed internet more accessible -- and more.
If the legislation passes, Biden will be able to tout the Build Back Better Act, the American Rescue Plan and the $1 trillion infrastructure bill to join the ranks of the few Democrats since FDR who have been able to expand the role of the federal government in American life. In a sharp rebuke of Reaganism, Biden is building on the liberal legacy that stipulates government is essential to a healthy and equitable marketplace.  
There are many reasons why President Biden has struggled politically in recent months. When it comes to the administration's problems with messaging, its reticence may be an overcorrection after the Trump era. Given that so many Americans grew tired of the onslaught of tweets, announcements and reports covering the turbulence in the White House under Trump, Biden may have initially chosen to step back from the limelight, working behind closed doors to try to focus on the challenges of governing. This strategy proved to be effective at the start of Biden's presidency, since it created the perception that the federal government was operating smoothly. 
But when pushing for big legislative initiatives, telling stories is part of what presidents do. Whenever the great Democratic presidents have successfully expanded the role of our government, they sold these laws to the American people as a way to address the major concerns of the day. Franklin Roosevelt's "New Deal" was an effort to address one of the worst economic crises in US history, offering workers and farmers a new social safety net that would ensure the bottom would not again fall out for average Americans. Lyndon B. Johnson's "Great Society" was an effort to use the growing wealth of this country to make the nation better than it had ever been by grappling with perennial challenges of poverty, racism, and inadequate education.
It wasn't just that Roosevelt or Johnson had pithy catchphrases—those alone, as Harry Truman learned with the "Fair Deal" are not enough to guarantee success. It was the ability of these presidents to connect the dots between their proposals and the most pertinent concerns of the era in order to make a compelling case to the American people that these legislative packages were critical to the country's future.
For Americans in 2021, nothing comes close to the pandemic and the problems it exposed and exacerbated. The nation and the world, lived through one of the most traumatic and unsettling crises of recent decades. Covid-19 ravaged the world and inflicted an enormous death toll while upending our way of life, widening racial and economic disparities, and inflicting a psychological toll that could have a lasting impact on people for years to come. While we are all focused on returning to some semblance of normality as soon as possible, the notion that we can simply move on or that the damage of the pandemic can easily be undone is shortsighted.
Joe Biden won the 2020 election over Donald Trump for many reasons, one of which was a desperate desire for efficient and coherent leadership that could help us all climb out of the desperate state the pandemic put us in. As Biden tries to push his capstone legislation toward final passage by Christmas, he has to come back to this basic concern. Too often, Biden has not done enough to explain how his legislative push is as integral to our country's recovery as the vaccine rollout.
In the last few days, the administration has finally started to push back against inflation hawks by explaining how the infrastructure bill and the Build Back Better package would actually reduce basic costs for American families. But he needs to do more by laying out what's in these bills and how they'll make a positive impact on millions of Americans. Lowering the cost of health care and child care while providing support for caregiving jobs, for example, addresses longstanding problems that came to the forefront during the pandemic. More aggressive efforts to deal with climate change is also part of how we avoid another global crisis from unfolding.   
The more Biden can do to explain how his agenda addresses the Covid-19 pandemic and how his policies will make us more resilient going forward, the more pressure he can exert on Senators Manchin and Sinema to finally join the rest of their party in moving forward with this historic legislation.

 (CNN)Law enforcement officials seized an estimated $6 million in ransom payments and federal prosecutors charged a suspect from Ukraine over a damaging July ransomware attack on an American company in a breakthrough for the Biden administration's pursuit of cybercriminals, the Justice Department announced Monday.
Yaroslav Vasinskyi, a Ukrainian national who was arrested in Poland last month, is accused of deploying ransomware known as REvil, which has been used in hacks that have cost US firms millions of dollars. Vasinskyi conducted a ransomware attack over the Fourth of July weekend on Florida-based software firm Kaseya that infected up to 1,500 businesses around the world, according to an indictment unsealed Monday. 
Vasinskyi and another alleged REvil operative, Russian national Yevgeniy Polyanin, are charged with conspiracy to commit fraud and conspiracy to commit money laundering, among other charges.  As part of the investigation, authorities seized at least $6 million in funds allegedly linked to ransom payments received by Polyanin, US officials said.
CNN was first to report on the law enforcement actions before the Justice Department announcement. 
The law enforcement bust is one of the most impactful actions yet in the Biden administration's multipronged fight against ransomware, which accelerated after a series of hacks hampered US critical infrastructure firms this year. While some ransomware groups have continued to breach US companies and demand payment, others have gone quiet in recent months.
Attorney General Merrick Garland said at a press conference that the US and its allies would do "everything in our power" to track down ransomware operatives and claw back the money "they have stolen from the American people."
Vasinskyi, 22, is being held in Poland pending US extradition proceedings, while Polyanin, 28, remains at large. CyberScoop, first reported that Vasinskyi had been arrested.
The Treasury Department on Monday also imposed sanctions on Vasinskyi and Polyanin, as well as cryptocurrency exchange that allegedly has moved money for ransomware operatives. 
The State Department meanwhile announced a reward of up to $10 million for information leading to the identification or location of the leadership of the REvil ransomware gang. The department is also offering up to $5 million for information leading to an arrest or conviction of anyone conspiring or attempting to participate in REvil ransomware attacks.  
US officials have pursued diplomacy with the Russian government, sanctioned a cryptocurrency exchange and exhorted companies to raise their cyber defenses. But experts say that putting ransomware operators in handcuffs is a crucial part of the US strategy to curb attacks. Romanian authorities last week arrested two additional alleged REvil operatives, Europol announced Monday. And South Korean authorities last month extradited to the US a Russian man accused of being part of a different crime ring that infected millions of computers worldwide.
In a statement later on Monday, President Joe Biden said, "We are bringing the full strength of the federal government to disrupt malicious cyber activity and actors, bolster resilience at home, address the abuse of virtual currency to launder ransom payments, and leverage international cooperation to disrupt the ransomware ecosystem and address safe harbors for ransomware criminals."  
Biden administration has made tackling ransomware groups a priority
Biden in June asked Russian President Vladimir Putin to take action against criminal hackers that were holding US companies hostage. But the Russian government has historically been reluctant to pursue cybercriminals on its own soil as long as the hackers refrain from hitting Russian targets.  
Since the Biden-Putin summit, "We have not seen a material change in the landscape," US Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco told the Associated Press last week. "Only time will tell as to what Russia may do on this front."
Garland on Monday declined to comment when asked if the Russian government was aware of or condoned the REvil activity, citing an ongoing investigation. 
In a crowded landscape of cyber crooks, REvil has stood out for a series of brazen attacks. The group reportedly demanded $50 million from Apple earlier this year after hacking one of the tech giant's suppliers.
The FBI has also blamed REvil for a May ransomware attack on JBS USA, which accounts for about a fifth of US beef production. The incident forced JBS to temporarily shut down production at facilities in Australia, Canada and the US. JBS paid the hackers $11 million to unlock their systems.
REvil has been deployed on about 175,000 computers worldwide, with at least $200 million paid in ransom, Garland said Monday.
Polyanin allegedly conducted about 3,000 ransomware attacks, including some on law enforcement agencies and municipalities throughout Texas, Garland said. 
REvil has had a volatile few months. The websites the group uses to extract ransoms and shame victims went offline after the Kaseya hack, only to reemerge in September. But the group shut down again last month after a foreign government and Cyber Command, the US military's hacking unit, compromised the group's computer infrastructure, according to a Washington Post report.  
To turn up the pressure, the State Department last week announced a $10 million reward for key information on the hackers behind the so-called DarkSide ransomware, which forced major US fuel provider Colonial Pipeline to shut down for days in May.  
Government agencies have leaned heavily on private experts in their pursuit of criminal hackers. Cybersecurity firm Emsisoft, for example, saved victims of a type of ransomware millions of dollars in ransom payments by discovering a flaw in the hackers' code. 
John Fokker, a former Dutch cybercrime investigator who is now with cybersecurity firm McAfee Enterprise, told CNN that his team had helped law enforcement identify multiple suspects involved in REvil and Gandcrab, another type of ransomware. 
No single law enforcement action will be a fatal blow to the lucrative, transnational ransomware economy.
Victims of ransomware attacks paid about $350 million in ransoms in 2020, according to Chainalysis, a firm that tracks cryptocurrency. But that figure is likely just a fraction of the digital extortion that went on that year. And victims who don't pay the ransom can spend millions of dollars rebuilding their computer infrastructure.
FBI Director Christopher Wray told US lawmakers in September that the bureau was investigating more than 100 different types of ransomware.
CNN's Evan Perez contributed reporting.
 (CNN)The US State Department is offering up to $10 million for information leading to the identification or location of senior members of a Russian-speaking ransomware gang that forced major US fuel operator Colonial Pipeline to shut down in May.
The announcement Thursday from State Department spokesperson Ned Price also included an offer of $5 million for information leading to the arrest or conviction of anyone who conspires to participate in a hack involving so-called DarkSide ransomware, which was used in the Colonial Pipeline incident.
It's the latest effort by the Biden administration to put pressure on cybercriminals that have extorted millions of dollars from US companies and threatened critical infrastructure. President Joe Biden in June appealed to Russian President Vladimir Putin to take action against ransomware groups operating from Russia, but it remains to be seen if that will happen.
It's not the first time the State Department has offered big money to try to catch foreign hackers.
Ahead of the 2020 election, the department said it would pay up to $10 million for information on the identity or location of anyone using "certain illegal cyber activities" to interfere with the vote at the behest of a foreign government.
"We need to use all the tools we have, and this is a good and hopefully effective one," Christopher Painter, a former top State Department cybersecurity envoy, told CNN.
The Colonial Pipeline incident shut down fuel deliveries to the East Coast of the US for days, prompting long lines at gas pumps in multiple states. It also put ransomware higher on the national security agency for the Biden administration, which since the incident has issued multiple cybersecurity policy directives.
The pipeline company, which delivers an estimated 45% of fuel consumed on the East Coast, paid the hackers $4.4 million to unlock the computers. The Justice Department was able to recover $2.3 million of that money by seizing cryptocurrency assets.
As the Biden administration pressures Russia to curb cybercriminal activity, US law enforcement and their international partners are pursuing suspects outside of Russia.
A 38-year-old Russian man accused of being part of a cybercrime ring that infected US computers with ransomware was extradited from the South Korea to the US last month. He faces computer fraud charges in a federal court in Ohio.
US intelligence agencies have also had a role in the crackdown.
US Cyber Command head and director of the National Security Agency Gen. Paul Nakasone said Wednesday that the US had "conducted a surge" over the past three months to address the threat of ransomware. Nakasone said the US government had been focusing on the sources of funding for ransomware operatives.
Russian government responses are harder to measure.
Chris Inglis, the US National Cyber Director, told lawmakers on Wednesday that the US had seen a "discernible decrease" in Russia-based hacks against US organizations since the Biden-Putin summit, but that it was "too soon to tell" if that lull in some ransomware activity was "because of the material efforts undertaken by the Russians or the Russian leadership."

Washington (CNN)The director of the National Institutes of Health stressed Sunday that a newly emerged coronavirus variant "ought to redouble" vaccination efforts and other mitigation strategies, saying that while much is unknown about the variant, action should be taken now to avoid "a situation that makes this worse."
"It's certainly not good news. We don't know yet how much of an impact this will have. It ought to redouble our efforts to use the tools that we have, which are vaccinations and boosters, and to be sure we're getting those to the rest of the world, too, which the US is doing more than any other country," NIH Director Dr. Francis Collins told CNN's Dana Bash on "State of the Union," referring to the new variant, named Omicron. 

"It also means we need to pay attention to those mitigation strategies that people are just really sick of, like wearing masks while indoors with other people who might not be vaccinated and keeping that social distance issue," he added. "We have to use every kind of tool in our toolbox to keep (Omicron) from getting in a situation that makes this worse." 
The comments from Collins come as public health experts, including those working in the Biden administration, are still attempting to learn more about the new variant, which is circulating in southern Africa and has been detected in Europe and Asia. President Joe Biden said on Friday that the US will restrict travel from South Africa and seven other countries starting Monday, in an effort to prevent the new variant from spreading to the US.
The Omicron strain of coronavirus is concerning to scientists because the variant's significant number of mutations could make it more contagious than the original novel coronavirus strain, health experts say. It's still unknown whether the three vaccines available for use in the US are effective against the new strain, but the vaccine manufacturers have said they're working to figure out what Omicron's impact is on their products. 
"We're going to get better information about this," Collins said Sunday. "But there's no reason to panic. But it is a great reason to go get boosted." 
Echoing what other experts have said in recent days, Collins predicted that it's "fairly likely" Omicron cases will eventually pop up in the US. 
"We have no evidence that it is (here now). So I'm on the fence about that. We will find out, because (the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) is looking at tens of thousands of viral isolates every week," he said. 
Meanwhile, the US is still suffering from the Delta variant surge -- a variant the CDC has said is about as contagious as chickenpox. The average daily number of deaths was more than 1,000 as of Friday, according to Johns Hopkins University, and hospitalizations in 16 states increased by more than 50% in the past week compared to the previous week, the US Health and Human Services Department said.
Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson noted Sunday that the Delta surge "has been tough on" his state, saying the Omicron variant is a concern that should prompt more people to get vaccinated. 
"We obviously have to have more information. But let's take this window to get better prepared by increasing our vaccination rates," Hutchinson, a Republican, told Bash in a separate interview on "State of the Union." "Our vaccination rates are up, so I'm much more optimistic about getting through this winter. But, obviously, a new variant is a concern." 
Arkansas is among the 10 states in the US with the lowest vaccination rates.
'Everything is on the table'
With more holiday travel on the horizon, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease expert, said Sunday that air travel "will continue to be safe" for vaccinated people "who follow the appropriate recommendations." 
"Going to the airport, being in an airport in congregate setting, people taking their masks off. That's the issue that we've got to make sure that we adhere to more closely and more firmly," he told NBC's "Meet the Press." But Fauci, who serves as Biden's chief medical adviser, declined to say whether he thought the US should mandate vaccines for air travel.  
"I'm not going to make any pronouncements about what we should have about vaccine mandates for travel," he said. "We know that we evaluate these things literally in real-time all the time. You know, everything is discussed and everything is on the table." 
This story has been updated with additional information. 

This story was excerpted from the November 17 edition of CNN's Meanwhile in America, the daily email about US politics for global readers. Click here to read past editions and subscribe.
 (CNN)The Olympics are about a lot more than sports. 
Each Games is a five-ring circus of politics, money, big business, nationalism and great power diplomatic signaling that puts the prestige of leaders who fought to host them on the line. So reports that the US may mount a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Winter Olympics in February suggest geopolitical jousting that dwarfs the bobsled, ice dancing and alpine skiing competitions. 
The Beijing Summer Games in 2008 heralded China's emergence as a developing force. Next year's Winter Games will be a platform from which to announce its arrival as a global power. But US President Joe Biden is under pressure from human rights campaigners and members of Congress to skip the Games and pull the entire official US diplomatic delegation, because of Beijing's repression of Uyghur Muslims in Xinjiang province.  
Secretary of State Antony Blinken said last week that the US was also discussing what to do with its allies, hinting at an even broader front. Such a diplomatic boycott would deprive President Xi Jinping of some of the glory of hosting the world's top leaders at a glittering gathering as he piles up domestic power. 
A diplomatic boycott would also have the advantage of making a point without harming athletes. A generation of competitors on both sides of the globe remember the full US sporting boycott of the Moscow Summer Games in 1980 and the tit-for-tat no-show by the eastern bloc at Los Angeles in 1984 as tragedies.  
In 2008, then-President George W. Bush agonized before accepting then-President Hu Jintao's invitation to attend the opening ceremony of the Summer Games amid calls for a boycott over Chinese repression in Tibet and its support for Sudan amid atrocities in Darfur. At that point, the US was still trying to balance criticism of China with hopes of positively influencing its behavior.  
This time, relations are at their lowest ebb since the US and China established diplomatic relations in 1978. Attending the Games did not come up between Biden and Xi during their marathon conversation on Monday, according to US officials -- but it would be a real surprise if Biden ends up making the trip across the Pacific. 

 (CNN)Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko's willful manipulation of migrants, enabling their easy passage to and through his country toward the border of the European Union, is a classic assault on democracy by an autocrat who knows that any attempt to fight back risks undermining the bloc's sacred values.
Lukashenko denies the condemnation made by the G7 group of the world's wealthiest democracies that he is orchestrating "irregular migration" in an "aggressive and exploitative" campaign -- just as he rejects the European Union's accusation that his re-election as president last year, his sixth consecutive five-year term, was a sham.
Not for nothing is the aging autocrat known outside of Belarus as Europe's last dictator.

For much of this month, the world watched as weary migrants, some with small children and mainly from the Middle East, were coaxed and coerced in freezing conditions to a forest border with the EU. Their rising anger at not being allowed to cross erupted at times as they hurled volleys of rocks at Polish border guards who eventually spewed water cannon fire back at them.
In a revealing interview with CNN last week, Lukashenko's foreign minister, Vladimir Makei, exposed the psychology behind his boss's decision to launch a frontal attack on Europe's borders. "Belarus has shown the dark side of the European democracy," he claimed.

US President Joe Biden made it an early theme of his term in office, that democracy is under attack. "We're at an inflection point," he told an audience in Germany in February. "We must demonstrate that democracy can still deliver for our people in this changed world. That, in my view, is our galvanizing mission."
But how to deliver on that mission is something that has yet to be mastered. Biden promised a "summit of democracies" "early" in his presidency, it is due to take place next month, although details are sketchy.  
Biden's leverage is waning among allies, due to diplomatic missteps such as the messy withdrawal from Afghanistan and the AUKUS security pact with Australia and the UK that marginalized France. Meanwhile, autocrats like Lukashenko and Russian President Vladimir Putin appear to be exploiting the opportunity to divide, discourage and sow dissent in the democracies closest to them, in Europe.
When Belarusian foreign minister Makei told CNN that: "Poland has violated all the possible international legal laws and democratic values," he turned logic on its head by ignoring Lukashenko's autocratic practices, such as what some governments condemned as the illegal "hijacking" of a commercial airliner that was diverted to Minsk, and arresting a Belarus opposition activist who was on board.
Cynically crying wolf, while wilfully ignoring their own violations is a convenience that autocracies routinely use to cover their tracks. 

On the face of it, how can the EU that champions human rights turn its back on migrants, less still turn water cannons on them? Human Rights groups have criticized Poland for preventing journalists from having access to the border region, and for allegedly pushing migrants who had successfully made it across the razor wire fence back into Belarus.  
It is the caring side of democracy, that values human rights and decency, that Biden and others fear autocracies exploit. At one point last week, Lukashenko's government proposed that Germany should take in 2,000 migrants and Belarus would handle the rest.
According to Lukashenko's foreign minister, both his boss and Putin were pushing Merkel into some sort of deal. "It was President Putin who tried to contribute to the settlement of this crisis. He had conversations with Chancellor Merkel, he had conversations with President Lukashenko and as a result of these conversations, the phone calls between Merkel and Lukashenko were organized."
Whatever the detail of those conversations, Merkel and her EU partners saw through the ruse and refused to play ball. Germany's Interior Minister Horst Seehofer later said firmly: "We will not take in refugees. We will not bow to the pressure and say: 'We are taking refugees into European countries,' because this would mean implementing the very basis of this perfidious strategy." 
This, it turns out, is not "the dark side of the European democracy," as Makei claims, but the EU's reality check on what it sees as Lukashenko's lies.
But will that matter for Lukashenko and Putin? Of course not. They thrive in a hybrid of hubris and confusion where doubt replaces certainty, and besmirching democracy's moral purpose is a victory in and of itself.
Exploiting democracy
While the fabricated crisis has -- so far -- failed to divide the EU, little of what's happened is a waste for the two autocrats, in that it helps prop up their own illegitimate rule. 
For their home audiences, the whipped-up confection of half truths about alleged mistreatment by border guards and their water cannons is enough to mislead some people into believing that the other side is no better than them.
Lukashenko is exploiting democracy's core value -- compassion -- by weaponizing migrant trauma to turn the EU's moral strength to vulnerability. Europe's real weakness, that he appears to assess, is not its physical borders but its principles. 

But the real pernicious injury of Lukashenko's ruses is inflicted on the heart of democracy itself. To fight off his assault on democracy, the EU is forced into taking a firm stand and rejecting the 2,000 migrants. It is logical, but only borderline moral. It stoops toward Lukashenko's level and treats those desperate people as pawns.
It is this often complicated issue that Biden wants us to explore by illuminating what democracy has at stake in the fight ahead.
Inside the European Union, the main effect of Lukashenko's machinations will be to risk raising the specter of migrants at the border even beyond the pre-existing vexing reality -- a situation that has already fueled populist nationalism.
At his inaugural address Biden used the word democracy five times in his introduction, and 11 times during his whole speech. It was at the forefront of his mind as he spoke at the spot where, just two weeks earlier, the United States' first attempted coup had unfolded.  
Looking out on Washington's flag-strewn Mall, his words broadcast into millions of living rooms and autocrats' offices around the world, Biden warned: "We have learned again that democracy is precious. Democracy is fragile." 
It has become even clearer since then that democracy's trials are far from over, both in the United States and around the world. Now, leaders must convert their well-meaning words into actions.

Sign up to get our weekly column as a newsletter. We're looking back at the strongest, smartest opinion takes of the week from CNN and other outlets.
 (CNN)"I do not pretend to understand the moral universe," wrote anti-slavery Unitarian minister Theodore Parker in a sermon published in 1853. "The arc is a long one, my eye reaches but little ways; I cannot calculate the curve and complete the figure by the experience of sight; I can divine it by conscience. And from what I see I am sure it bends toward justice." 
Those words, famously echoed by Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and former President Barack Obama, come to mind when juries render their verdicts, as they did twice last week in closely watched cases. 
In Georgia, a jury found three men guilty of murdering Ahmaud Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man who was chased and shot to death on a suburban street in 2020. In Virginia, a jury ordered extremists, including organizers of the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, to pay damages of more than $26 million for the violence that ensued. 
The Georgia verdicts "represent a real strike against white supremacy and systemic racism in our criminal legal system," wrote Issac Bailey. The "nearly all-White jury shamed the defense for believing anti-Black racism would help secure an acquittal. It's the kind of decision we should want replicated throughout our system, the kind we should want proclaimed and celebrated, the kind we must hope becomes precedent. If it does, Black jurors would not be continuously discriminated against during jury selection. If it does, racist White men would think twice before arming themselves to take matters into their own hands the way White racist mobs did during the height of the lynching era. If it does, I'll feel less of a need to arm myself to go jogging alone, even in nearly-all White neighborhoods." 

Legal analyst Areva Martin credited the "the powerful video evidence and the stellar work of prosecutor Linda Dunikoski" for leaving "in shreds the preposterous citizen's arrest/self-defense contentions that were raised" by the defendants. "Travis McMichael's contradictory statements and testimony, along with the video evidence, demonstrated that he never had a fear of imminent harm and never even told Arbery he was holding him for the police."  
"Reasonable fear did not motivate this killing. The prosecution had only to mention the defendant's own words on the 911 call he made. What emergency did he cite? 'There's a Black male running down the street.'"  
In Virginia, jurors also rejected the defense's case. The Charlottesville rally, Frida Ghitis wrote, is "seared in the minds of many Americans...The march through the grounds of the University of Virginia looked and sounded like something out of 1930s Nazi Germany, with tiki torches and shouts of 'Jews will not replace us,' 'Blood and soil,' and stiff-armed Nazi-style salutes."  
"The moment seemed to confirm our worst fears. The day after that spine-chilling march, violent clashes between racists and anti-racists turned deadly when one of the defendants rammed his car into a crowd of counter protesters, killing one and injuring several of the people now turned plaintiffs in this lawsuit."
People around the world "need to hear the message of accountability this jury has sent," Ghitis observed. 
For more:
Jill Filipovic: There is no conceivable justification for defense's treatment of Ahmaud Arbery
Omicron worries
Omicron is the 15th letter of the Greek alphabet. It's also now the name of a new coronavirus variant whose many mutations prompted scientists to rush to figure out its likely impact. Will it rival or exceed the Delta variant's transmissibility? Will it evade any of the protection offered by vaccines? 
"After South Africa sounded the alarm on a new Covid-19 variant, the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 900 points on Black Friday, marking a dire start to what was forecast to be a record-shattering holiday spending season," wrote Julian Zelizer. It's too early to tell how much of a threat Omicron poses, but it clearly complicates the recovery efforts of President Joe Biden's administration.   
"Under more normal circumstances, we would expect the President to enjoy some political benefit from the economic recovery and strong legislative wins, including the passage of the $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package." But Biden's approval ratings are much lower than they were at the start of his presidency, Zelizer wrote.
"The pandemic is far from over, and after nearly two years and more than 775,000 deaths, many Americans are traumatized and on edge."
Writing for Bloomberg Opinion, David Fickling noted that "scarcely more than half of the world's population has had a dose of a Covid vaccine. That means there's still more than 3.4 billion people out there whose bodies the virus can treat as laboratories in which to develop new mutations. Until we reduce that number further, the odds aren't as strongly in our favor as we'd like to think."  
Thanksgiving 2021
The Thanksgiving weekend of 2021 represented a step closer to a pre-pandemic world, with more people traveling, gathering in person and venturing out to shop, even as parts of the US saw surges in Covid-19 infections.
Target drew attention this week when its chief executive Brian Cornell announced it will never again open its stores on Thanksgiving. As Kara Alaimo wrote, "[He] said he made the decision after employees told him they wanted to spend the holiday with their families -- which is, of course, exactly where they should be."
"The move to prioritize the well-being of Target's staffers sends a powerful message about the company's values at a time when Americans are rethinking our approaches to work. And, whether customers realize it or not, this benefits them, too. Other companies would be smart to follow suit."

Ruth Ben-Ghiat wrestled with a situation many have experienced. "Almost everyone I know worries about ruptured or strained relationships with friends or family members who are caught up in a vortex of disinformation and immersed in alternate versions of reality, including the popular conspiracy theory QAnon," Ben-Ghiat noted. 
"I know what it's like to see a loved one drift away until they are unreachable through logic, reason or evidence. During the pandemic, a family member previously known for her common sense became radicalized." What to do?  
"Keep them close and find common ground on other issues, as hard as that might be. This does not mean we accept or validate their racist or anti-science beliefs, but rather aim to be strategic. After all, if we cut them off or yell at them, we simply magnify the chances that they will remain siloed among like-minded people."

2024
In Washington, some Democrats are already fretting over the possibility of losing control of Congress in the 2022 midterm election and over the question of who will lead their party's ticket in 2024 if President Joe Biden chooses not to run. (The White House says he is planning to run again.)
"If Biden does run, as an incumbent, he has an advantage," wrote Lincoln Mitchell. "But if he chooses not to, that doesn't mean Democrats are doomed."
Two of the party's most prominent figures, Vice President Kamala Harris and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg could wind up as rivals in a post-Biden primary contest. But that needn't happen, Mitchell observed. They could "run together in 2024, with Harris the nominee for president and Buttigieg for vice-president. This could put an end to whatever feuding exists between them now, while giving the Democratic Party a very strong ticket in 2024 that would seem like a natural continuation of Biden's first term. A Harris-Buttigieg ticket would showcase two dynamic politicians and represent the breadth and diversity of the Democratic Party, and indeed the whole country, while not veering too far left and alienating key swing voters who Biden won in 2020."  
Biden's troubles are partly a matter of messaging, wrote Molly Jong-Fast in The Atlantic. "To improve Biden's popularity, earnest consultants might tell him to work on the fundamentals," she observed. "But the fundamentals are actually good: The economy is getting better. Americans have both cash and jobs...The disconnect between the facts and the polls suggests that Biden's true problem is a narrative one. Specifically, he doesn't have an enemy, a punching bag to absorb Americans' anger (rational or irrational)..."
"Biden needs to remind Americans of what he's trying to achieve -- rescuing democracy from the threat of authoritarianism, both at home and abroad -- and ask them to enlist alongside him in that cause. Voters rallied behind Biden when he made that case on the campaign trail in 2020, and with the right messaging they would do so again today," Jong-Fast argued.
"For most of 2021, we have been engaged in a national conversation around why the January 6 insurrection happened and who was responsible," wrote Jennifer Rodgers. In recent days, she noted, judges have spoken out on the question. 
For example, "Judge Amit Mehta of federal district court in Washington, D.C., said during the sentencing of a January 6 defendant that the defendant was a 'pawn' who was 'told the election was stolen when it was not,' and that 'those who created the conditions that led to [the defendant's] conduct have in no meaningful measure been held accountable.'" More judges will give their views as hundreds of similar cases get resolved. 
"Measured, fact-based descriptions of relevant events by judges have the potential to persuade where hyper-partisan rhetoric from elected officials may not," Rodgers observed. "Indeed, the public should place greater weight on what judges are saying because of their unique role as neutral arbiters and their mastery of the relevant evidence. Let's just hope people are listening."

Don't miss
Nicole Hemmer: Tucker Carlson just added Kyle Rittenhouse to his pantheon of victim-heroes
Dean Obeidallah: An activist radio host has put his life on the line for voting rights. Biden, it's your move
Michael D'Antonio: Just in time for the holidays, a new revenue stream for Trump

AND...
Robert Redford's plea

Robert Redford was 11 when he left Los Angeles for the first time. He had recovered from a mild case of polio and his mother drove him to Yosemite National Park. Seeing the famous landscape from Inspiration Point, "I knew immediately that I was somewhere special," the actor wrote.
Thus began a lifelong passion for America's national parks. Redford took his children to places like Chaco Canyon, where they "could explore the remains of what was once the center of a bustling and sophisticated Puebloan civilization that existed hundreds of years before Europeans first set foot on this continent." 
"Unfortunately, these sacred and unprotected landscapes around Chaco have long been targeted for oil and gas drilling that desecrates what was once the center of an ancient civilization, and a part of the history of our continent and our species." Redford applauded the Biden administration's announcement of a ban of new oil and gas drilling on federal lands within a 10-mile radius around the Chaco Culture National Historical Park in New Mexico.
There are many other parks and sites threatened by development, Redford observed, including the Grand Canyon. "The United States is not even 250 years old," he wrote. "These places collectively hold thousands of years' worth of history, culture and stories. We must preserve these lands."

 (CNN)The Environmental Protection Agency unveiled billions of dollars in new federal water infrastructure funding on Thursday, urging states to utilize the federal dollars from the recent bipartisan infrastructure law to address environmental impacts faced by historically underserved communities.
The bipartisan infrastructure law provided more than $50 billion to the EPA for improvements in water infrastructure, which amounts to the "single largest investment in water that the federal government has ever made," according to the agency's website. 
The EPA announced the 2022 state funding allotments, which will largely be distributed through the agency's State Revolving Fund programs. About $7.4 billion will be allocated to states, tribes and territories for 2022 -- the first-year allotment of nearly $44 billion in total SRF funding over the next five years from the infrastructure law, according to an EPA fact sheet.
The EPA's news comes as one of the first major announcements of funding allocations from the infrastructure package. Last month, the Biden administration unveiled billions for electric vehicle charging stations as part of the new law.
In a letter to governors Thursday, EPA Administrator Michael Regan stressed that as the agency evaluates states' plans for the funding, it "strongly urges states to maximize the potential to remove barriers and prioritize the distribution of grant funds to disadvantaged communities."
"Every state in America has disadvantaged communities -- rural, urban, suburban -- that have deeply rooted water challenges, whether it is too much, too little or poor-quality water," Regan noted in his letter. "These communities have never received their fair share of federal water infrastructure funding. Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, states have an unprecedented opportunity to correct this disparity."

This comes as the Biden administration has made investing in environmental justice initiatives a core focus of its climate policies. The agency previously launched a road map to combat pollution from per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), including a new national testing strategy, a proposal to designate certain PFAS as hazardous substances under existing law, and actions to broaden and accelerate cleanup. 
The EPA administrator further called on states to use the water infrastructure dollars to tackle key challenges, including lead in drinking water and PFAS contamination.
"Moving forward, the EPA's strategy to address lead in drinking water will prioritize communities with the highest lead levels and those with environmental-justice concerns. I urge you to join us in this commitment," Regan wrote to governors. "The EPA will be looking for intended use plans that affirmatively target these funds to replace both public and private lead service lines, especially in disadvantaged communities that lack access to other sources of funding."
This story has been updated with more information about the EPA's funding allocation.
CNN's Ella Nilsen contributed to this report.
Washington (CNN)A Democratic congresswoman from California stressed on Sunday the need to bring down extremely high gas prices in her state, saying that while she would prefer the market sort itself out, she's open to some federal intervention. 
"The median price is $4. And in many places, it's $5. I know that the oil industry said that one of the reasons for the increase in price was because they had to slow down production because they had to do some maintenance," Rep. Karen Bass told CNN's Jake Tapper on "State of the Union." "We have got to reduce the price of gas in California." 
Asked by Tapper if she'd support the Biden administration tapping into the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve in an attempt to bring down prices, the California Democrat replied: "Well, I'm not sure. I mean, that is certainly one thing that could be done." 
"But I'm kind of more concerned about the oil producers being able to get back online," she added. "So hopefully we'll see some reduction and the administration won't have to intervene." 

CNN reported Friday that California gas prices hit an average price of $4.658 that day, about a penny short of the highest recorded average price of $4.671 for regular gasoline set in October 2012, according to AAA. The prices mean the state's residents are seeing the highest gas prices in the country, with the national average having dropped slightly to $3.416 on Friday.
Gas prices have been increasing steadily throughout the year as fuel demand grows around the globe and suppliers have been unable -- or unwilling -- to produce more oil. Although US oil prices have surged by more than 65% this year, US oil production is about 14% below the levels seen at the end of 2019, before the Coronavirus erupted around the country. 
In a separate interview with Tapper on Sunday, Brian Deese, the director of the National Economic Council, would not directly answer whether President Joe Biden was willing to open the US Strategic Petroleum Reserve or to stop gas and oil exports to address rising crude oil prices. 
"We are very committed to do everything we can to make sure that American consumers don't bear the brunt of high gas prices and volatile energy prices and the President has made clear that all options are on the table," he said. 
Tapping into the supply of the SPR, which is designed to protect the nation against a major disruption in oil supplies, would likely only provide modest, temporary relief from higher prices at the pump.
Last week, Biden was noncommittal on ordering a SPR release after the OPEC+ coalition rejected calls from the US and other large, oil-consuming nations to increase output by more than planned in December.

David A. Andelman, a contributor to CNN, twice winner of the Deadline Club Award, and executive director of The Red Lines Project, is the author of "A Red Line in the Sand: Diplomacy, Strategy, and the History of Wars That Might Still Happen" and host of its Evergreen podcast. He formerly was a correspondent for The New York Times and CBS News in Europe and Asia. Follow him on Twitter @DavidAndelman. The views expressed in this commentary belong solely to the author. View more opinion on CNN.
 (CNN)Kamala Harris is a hit in Paris. 
More than a month after a firestorm broke out between the United States and France over the Biden administration's colossally ill-considered torpedoing of a major French-Australian submarine deal, the vice president landed in Paris to try to patch things up. And so far, it's working.
Harris and French President Emmanuel Macron seemed delighted to see each other as they grasped arms in a Covid-conscious greeting outside the Élysée presidential palace Wednesday. "I can tell you French people are extremely proud to have you here," Macron said at the start of their bilateral meeting. Their first tête-à-tête ran so long that aides tried to intervene and wrap up the meeting. Macron also gave Harris a tour of the building, pointing out the desk of France's first modern president Charles de Gaulle, who had his own prickly relationship with the United States.
The next morning, at a grand ceremony at the Arc de Triomphe, celebrating France's unknown soldier and Hubert Germain, France's last great World War II resistance fighter, who died last month at the age of 101, national television cameras focused on Harris, casting her image on a jumbotron screen overlooking the ceremony several times.  
Later in the afternoon, the two sat side-by-side, carefully masked, in the front row of the Paris Peace Forum, chatting continuously, though out of earshot of any microphones. In her speech about inequality, she urged, "Let us not be burdened by what has been, let us focus on what can be. And let us realize a better future together."
Although she wasn't commenting directly on the relationship between the US and France, this has been the repeated refrain of her visit -- to look forward rather than back. 
Macron later singled out Harris in his speech, saying, "I am very happy, Madam Vice President, to have the United States back in the club of multilateralism. This is wonderful news ... Because I believe this is the rightful place for the United States of America." 
Still, whether all this bonhomie will be enough to patch over deeply frayed relations between the two countries dating back to Presidents Barack Obama and François Hollande, remains to be seen. What is apparent, however, is that the two leaders are touting their partnership on everything from defense to supply chain disruptions -- with the goal of making a mark at home as Macron faces the upcoming presidential election in April and Harris tries to burnish her foreign policy bona fides amid flagging approval ratings and infighting within the Democratic Party.
Clearly, both Macron and Harris hope they may be able to turn the page on past issues. "Leadership is partnership," Macron said when he first met US President Joe Biden in England for the G7 summit in June. That was, of course, the very moment the United States was negotiating the submarine agreement with Australia and the UK, killing a 50-year pact with France, all without a single word of it to Macron or the French (Biden has since acknowledged the US was "clumsy" in its treatment of France). 
Regardless of how Macron really feels, Harris' visit has also been a chance to distinguish himself from his far-right opponent in the elections next April. Macron is expected to run for reelection, although one of his senior advisers pointed out to me that the incumbent President has not yet formally announced his intention to seek a second term.
Either way, the far-right firebrand, Eric Zemmour, has already positioned himself as Macron's leading challenger, throwing down the gauntlet, particularly with respect to France's relations with the United States. In response to the last conciliatory meeting Macron had with Biden in Rome on the sidelines of the G20 summit, Zemmour said he had "never seen such a humiliation." One of Macron's counselors, who agreed to speak on the condition of anonymity to comment more frankly on the state of French politics, told me in an email that the President "does not make decisions (on) the role of France in the world" based on the views of Zemmour who, she added, "is very far from the values the President believes in and fights for."
A White House official said that the invitation for Harris to visit Paris came from Macron before the submarine imbroglio. Still, the timing was especially opportune for both leaders. With Harris seemingly fading from the domestic squabbles over Biden's agenda and Macron's hovering at around 24% going into the first round of elections (still the highest among any of his challengers), it's not hard to see a kindred view of this opportunity. 
"If we want to be able to compete, we have to be good partners; we have to show up. America is a global leader," the White House briefer told reporters on Wednesday. And Macron's counselor echoed that sentiment, telling me, "Our friendship (with the US) is robust, we are close allies, and finally we have many things to do together when it comes to global issues and regional crisis issues as partners."
Still, it's been a difficult time all around for US-France relations, the foundations of which have been eroded over many years. It's quite clear that relationships that have been subject to the strain we've seen in recent years between the United States and France will take some time to heal. But consistency is essential. Showing up is a good first step.

 (CNN)The Federal Aviation Administration -- which cannot prosecute violent airline passengers -- has sent only 37 of the more than 5,000 passenger complaints this year to the Justice Department, highlighting a significant challenge when it comes to enforcing the strict rules for the increasingly unruly skies.
The FAA said it has sent the "most egregious cases" to the Justice Department. In a rare joint statement issued first to CNN, the two agencies said they are "working closely together to ensure unruly airline passengers face criminal prosecution when warranted."
The multi-agency announcement comes after months of pressure from airline worker unions for the federal government to get tougher on violence on commercial flights. Flight crews have reported 5,033 such incidents so far this year, and the FAA has initiated enforcement action in 227 cases. 
"Where the evidence supports criminal review, the FAA refers the cases to the FBI," the joint statement said. 
The FAA also unveiled a new public service announcement on Thursday, highlighting an FAA letter referring a case to the Justice Department and outlining an actual fine issued. "You don't want this letter," the ad says, hoping to deter bad behavior.
But unions underscore that in many cases, passengers walk free. The FAA does not have the power to prosecute criminal cases, only to assess civil fines up to $37,000.
"I think we're making good progress, but there's certainly more to be done," FAA Administrator Steve Dickson said Wednesday at a hearing before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation. "It really does require the cooperation of all those private-sector stakeholders and including the airports, as well as the various aspects of the federal government."
President Joe Biden said in early October that he has instructed the Justice Department to address the rising violence on airplanes as passengers resisting mask requirements threaten airline staff.
"I instructed the Justice Department to make sure that we deal with the violence on aircraft coming from those people who are taking issues," Biden said during an October 7 event outside Chicago. "We're going to deal with that."
On Monday, federal investigators charged Brian Hsu of Irvine, California, with assault and interfering with a flight crew, alleging he had punched an American Airlines flight attendant in the face. The charges could carry a 20-year prison sentence.
Court documents detailing the October 27 incident say the flight attendant was trying to keep Hsu from reaching the lavatory while the seat belt sign was on. Hsu, who said he was traveling home following brain surgery, told investigators he was acting in self-defense.
CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated which agency released a public service announcement warning of consequences for bad behavior. It was the FAA.

 (CNN)Construction has been halted on a secret development inside of a Chinese shipping port near Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates after intense US pressure, at least for now, two sources familiar with the matter told CNN -- but multiple officials cautioned that the security concerns over the Chinese presence in the country are far from resolved.
The port project has been the focus of a flurry of diplomatic engagements in recent months by senior US officials and prominent lawmakers on Capitol Hill and has potentially jeopardized the sale of advanced American jet fighters and other advanced munitions to the UAE. 
"Last we checked, we had successfully convinced the Emiratis to shut down the project," said one source familiar with the intelligence. "But it's still a live issue."
The Wall Street Journal first reported that construction on the facility had been halted. 
US officials for at least a year have been closely watching the construction of what they believed was a military facility inside the commercial Khalifa port, about 50 miles from the UAE capital. The United States considers the UAE a key partner in counterterrorism efforts in the region and has thousands of troops based at an Emirati air base 20 miles outside of Abu Dhabi. 
Although China -- and the UAE -- portrayed the port venture as purely commercial, US intelligence has observed ships disguised as commercial vessels that officials recognized as a type typically used by the Chinese military for signals intelligence collection entering the port, according to two sources familiar with the intelligence.
Officials remain divided over how much the UAE knew about China's intentions. A spokesman for the UAE Embassy in Washington said in a statement that the UAE "never had an agreement, plan, talks or intention to host a Chinese military base or outpost of any kind." 
The US National Security Council declined to comment. The Chinese Embassy did not respond to a request for comment.
China developing ports around the world
China has sought to develop commercial ports in outposts around the world in what US officials see as a clear effort to develop a foothold for military access. China has developed commercial ports in Pakistan and Sri Lanka, as well as built its first overseas military base in Djibouti in 2017. 
Both the Trump administration and the Biden administration have sought to pressure the UAE to put a stop to the project at the port, which is run by a Chinese shipping conglomerate. 
Senior US lawmakers also addressed the port project with Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, the crown prince of Abu Dhabi, during a visit to the region in June. Sen. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said in a tweet that he had discussed "our mutual concern regarding Chinese military activities in the Middle East" with bin Zayed. 
Even though construction on the secretive development inside the port has now apparently been stopped, current and former officials say the broader Chinese presence in the country still may endanger the planned $23 billion sale of F-35 jets, Reaper drones and other advanced munitions, two sources familiar with the matter explained. 
"The F-35 is our crown jewel. We need to be able to protect technology and security for all of our partners," Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Mira Resnick told CNN earlier this week. "Those are the conversations we are having with Emiratis about what kind of choices they can make now, to make sure they can be part of the F-35 program."
Still, that the Biden administration was able to stop the facility from being built represents a key diplomatic victory in its efforts to compete with China on the international stage, current and former officials say. They point to leverage created by both negotiations on the F-35 -- which may now ease forward -- and the signing of the Abraham Accords, which normalized relations between Israel and some Gulf nations, including the UAE, under President Donald Trump. 
"I am thrilled with this development today," Inhofe wrote. "I look forward to making sure the Biden admin continues productive conversations w/ our Emirati friends about advancing the F-35 sale, which would build our long-term relationship."
On Tuesday, Resnick told reporters in a briefing that the United States remains the "partner of choice of all our allies in the region."  
"None of the strategic competitors are able, they're not capable or willing to offer what the United States offers. So our partners and allies are well aware of that, and that is why they consistently choose the United States," she said.

WASHINGTON, Nov 20 (Reuters) - The U.S. Transportation Security Administration screened 2.24 million airline passengers on Friday, the highest number of passengers since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, it announced on Saturday.
TSA spokesperson Lisa Farbstein announced the milestone on Twitter, saying it was the "highest checkpoint volume" since March 2020, when the pandemic took hold in the United States, bringing travel and business to a halt.

Earlier in the week, the TSA said it had expected to screen about 20 million air passengers during the busy Thanksgiving travel period - from Nov. 19 to Nov. 28 - and predicted volumes may be close to pre-pandemic levels.
Major U.S. airlines had predicted an uptick in air travel over the last few days.
Delta Air Lines said it expects to fly up to 5.6 million passengers from Friday through Nov. 30, nearly 300% over 2020's 2.2 million Delta passengers for the period but still below the 6.3 million passengers during the same period in 2019.
United Airlines said it anticipates more than 4.5 million passengers during the Thanksgiving travel period - about 88% of 2019 volume.
Last week, the Biden administration lifted travel restrictions for fully vaccinated air travelers from 33 countries, including China, South Africa, Brazil and much of Europe. (Reporting by Valerie Volcovici and David Shepardson; editing by Jonathan Oatis)

New York (CNN Business)Smartmatic, the voting technology company that is suing Fox News, some of its hosts and pro-Trump lawyers Rudy Giuliani and Sidney Powell for defamation, is now adding Newsmax and One America News Network to the list of defendants.
Smartmatic's lawyers filed defamation suits against the two hard-right TV networks on Wednesday, the one-year anniversary of Election Day 2020. 
"Despite claims to provide viewers with honest, unbiased reporting, these outlets victimized Smartmatic by spreading false information about the company following last year's election, all in their efforts to increase viewership and revenue," J. Erik Connolly, one of the attorneys representing Smartmatic, said in a statement.
Smartmatic filed suit against Newsmax Media in Superior Court of the State of Delaware. The lawsuit charged that Newsmax "published dozens of reports indicating that Smartmatic participated in a criminal conspiracy to rig and steal the 2020 U.S. election and that its technology and software were used to switch votes from former President Trump to now President Biden."
The suit alleged that Newsmax promoted lies about the election "as a tool in its competition against Fox News."
Newsmax's ratings spiked when Fox identified Joe Biden as the president-elect. Newsmax sought to appeal to Trump fans by refusing to acknowledge Biden's win for weeks -- and, the lawsuit alleged, by defaming Smartmatic.
"What Newsmax said about Smartmatic was fake but the damage it caused to Smartmatic is real," Wednesday's filing said. 
The case against One America News owner Herring Networks was filed in United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
The lawsuit stated that One America News aired many segments last winter that advanced bogus charges of election fraud. 
The first time it happened could be a mistake. The second, third, fourth and fiftieth times it happened were intentional choices," the lawyers wrote. "OANN had every opportunity to do the right thing after the 2020 election for President and Vice President of the United States. It could have reported the truth. Instead, OANN chose to do the wrong thing every time. It reported a lie.
Smartmatic said in the lawsuits that both networks are responsible for "disinformation campaigns" that harmed Smartmatic and negatively impacted the company's business. This is the same charge Smartmatic leveled at Fox News in February when it filed a defamation suit against the network for $2.7 billion. Fox has sought to get that suit dismissed.
Another voting tech company, Dominion, filed a defamation suit against the two networks in August. (Dominion previously sued Fox in March.)
"While Newsmax has yet to receive or review the Smartmatic filing, Newsmax reported accurately on allegations made by well-known public figures, including the President, his advisors and members of Congress, as well as reporting on Smartmatic's claims in its defense," Newsmax said in a statement to CNN Business Wednesday. "Smartmatic's action against Newsmax today is a clear attempt to squelch the rights of a free press."
Representatives for OAN did not respond to CNN Business' request for comment. 
OAN didn't issue a response when the Dominion suit was filed, but the network previously claimed that it wasn't responsible for broadcasting the opinions of others.

 (CNN)Kari Lake, the Arizona gubernatorial candidate recently endorsed by former President Donald Trump, has embraced fringe far-right figures in her campaign events, including publicly thanking a Nazi sympathizer for his support and appearing with figures linked to the QAnon conspiracy, a CNN KFile review of her appearances has found.
At a campaign event in late August, Lake posed for a photo and video with far-right personalities Ethan Schmidt-Crockett, the founder of the AntiMaskersClub, who harassed a store specializing in wigs for cancer patients this summer because it required customers to wear masks, and Greyson Arnold, a Nazi sympathizer who has a history of making White nationalist, racist, antisemitic and pro-Nazi statements, including once calling Adolf Hitler "a complicated historical figure which many people misunderstand." 
"Anti-maskers club here with Kari Lake," said Schmidt-Crockett alongside Lake and Arnold in the video. "America First," they each said. 
After Arnold posted a photo of the trio on Twitter, Lake replied, "It was a pleasure to meet you, too."
Lake became an early favorite in the GOP primary by embracing the once-fringe extremism now mainstream within the Republican Party, including promoting election lies, doubling down against mask and vaccine mandates, and calling for the imprisonment of Democratic Secretary of State Katie Hobbs, who is also running for governor. GOP Gov. Doug Ducey cannot run again next year because of term limits.
The former longtime TV anchor at a Phoenix Fox affiliate station has also earned the endorsement of other far-right conspiracy theorists, including Rep. Paul Gosar, former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn and MyPillow CEO Mike Lindell. 
In the wake of Trump's loss to Joe Biden in Arizona last year, the state GOP has censured Republicans who have spoken out against Trump's efforts to overturn the election, while support for the partisan audit of Maricopa County's election has become a litmus test for candidates in GOP primaries for governor and Senate.
On Wednesday, Lake's campaign held what it called an "election integrity" rally to commemorate the anniversary of the 2020 election, which she falsely promotes as the "Big Steal" in event flyers. 
Lake posed for a photo last month with Ron Watkins, a MAGA conspiracy theorist who helped spread and amplify the violent far-right QAnon conspiracy across social media.
Watkins, who is running for Congress in Arizona's 1st Congressional District, wrote in the post, "Just had dinner with Kari Lake, the next Governor of Arizona. She inspires me with her tenacity and willingness to lead the fight to take back Arizona from do-nothing RINOs."
After publication, an attorney for the Lake campaign reached out to CNN and pointed to a statement from Lake denying she had dinner with Watkins, as he had described on Telegram, and saying he was among many she had met at a campaign event.   
"There were more than 75 Arizona voters there who showed up to hear me speak about our candidacy. I took photos with many of the people who asked for them. I take dozens of photos with Arizonans each day at campaign events across the state," Lake said. 
Timothy La Sota, an attorney for the campaign, added that Lake "does not do a background check on everyone she takes a photo with or everyone whose name she ever mentions."
At a Back the Blue campaign event in early October, Lake's campaign invited right-wing activist Mary Ann Mendoza, who lost her police officer son in a crash involving an undocumented immigrant, to speak. 
Last year, Mendoza promoted a QAnon-laced conspiracy theory tweet thread that baselessly alleged Jews were plotting to take over the world, causing the Republican National Convention to abruptly drop her from its speaking lineup. 
Lake also appeared at events with at least two Republicans who have run or are running for Congress and have engaged with the QAnon conspiracy theory, Josh Barnett and Daniel Wood.
Barnett, who is running in Arizona's 6th Congressional District, previously shared numerous QAnon hashtags on his social media platforms (including the innocuous-looking #savethechildren). Although he has since distanced himself from the conspiracy theory, he has become active in pushing for Arizona's sham election audit.
Lake has praised Barnett on social media as "an American hero" and "patriot" who "deserves so much credit for making sure the debacle election of 2020 was investigated. The forensic audit would not have happened without you." 
There was no evidence of widespread fraud in the 2020 election and the sham audit confirmed that Biden had defeated Trump in Maricopa County.
While speaking at a Q&A in October, Lake praised Barnett, who sat in the audience, for assisting with that audit.  
"We have some people like Josh, in here, who's been helping get them rolling in Georgia, Pennsylvania. And this is a real patriot right here. Can Josh stand up? I'm sorry. I have to call you out," she said. "Josh Barnett is one of the most amazing -- I always say that our grandkids will be toasting him in, in a bar in 50 years as one of the people who helped save the republic." 
In May, before she officially launched her gubernatorial bid, Lake also spoke at the same Arizona MAGA conference as Barnett and Wood, a Republican who ran in Arizona's 3rd Congressional District last year. Wood previously said he has followed QAnon "at times" and that while he's cautious about the movement, "it has millions of followers who really want our country to succeed."
This story has been updated Monday with a statement from Lake and an attorney for her campaign. 

 (CNN)A growing roster of ambitious Republicans, including Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis and Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, joined the legal battle against President Joe Biden's workplace vaccine mandates.
The holiday-season legal battle ahead of the January 4 start date for the vaccinate-or-test requirement for large businesses underscores the partisan and cultural divide over the Biden administration's efforts to end the coronavirus pandemic that has now killed more than 750,000 Americans since early 2020.
Republicans have identified opposing all coronavirus health protocols -- including mask requirements, school closures, vaccination mandates and more -- as a political winner. 
"I just think people are so sick of constantly being bossed around, restricted, mandated, all these different things," DeSantis told reporters Thursday. "We've had enough of it and we want people to be able to make their own decisions."
By Friday afternoon, 26 states had sued over an Occupational Safety and Health Administration rule rolled out Thursday that would require businesses with 100 or more employees to have their workers fully vaccinated for Covid-19 or tested on a weekly basis. The rule would cover 84 million employees.
The list of Republicans whose states have joined the legal battle against Biden's mandate is a who's-who of those aligning themselves for potential 2024 bids for the GOP's presidential nomination -- or for prominent roles, if former President Donald Trump runs again. 
"People have freedoms and they have personal responsibility over their health," South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem said in a Twitter video in which she said her state would sue, too. "Here in South Dakota, that will be protected and defended." 
Abbott, after Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and several other states filed a separate lawsuit, said on Twitter: "This mandate is an unprecedented overreach by the executive branch of the federal government and must be halted," 
In Congress, Senate Republicans are launching an effort to overturn the mandate by holding a vote on a resolution disapproving of the rule, yet it is unlikely to pass with Democrats in control of the chamber.
The Republican National Committee on Friday said it was also asking a court to block what it characterized as "unlawful overreach" by Biden's administration. 
"On behalf of frontline workers who protected us through the pandemic, small businesses recovering from Democrat-led lockdowns, and American workers trying to provide for their families: we will see you in court," RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said in a statement. 
The lawsuits aimed at the OSHA rule are separate from a series of lawsuits filed in recent weeks against the administration over a mandate that targets federal contractors. In September, Biden signed an executive order requiring all employees of contractors that do business with the federal government be vaccinated. There is no test-out option for the covered federal contractor employees.
A third rule, also rolled out Thursday by the administration, will require 17 million health care workers at facilities participating in Medicare and Medicaid to be vaccinated. The rule for these health care workers, which is being implemented by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, does not provide a test-out option.
While states ready themselves for a new round of legal challenges, local vaccine mandates are already operating in some parts of the country. In some places, those mandates have led to clashes between local officials and law enforcement unions and other groups of government employees that do not want to follow them.
The aggressive steps DeSantis, in particular, have taken puts a spotlight on a governor who has emerged as a leading 2024 presidential contender within the GOP. 
Florida's legislature is due to return to Tallahassee later this month for a special session aimed at enacting laws that would discourage businesses from imposing pandemic-related mandates. 
Nikki Fried, the Democratic Florida agriculture commissioner who is taking on DeSantis in his bid for a second term next year, said in a statement that she does not support mandates, but noted that DeSantis is challenging federal mandates even after imposing his own state-level mandates on local governments. 
"We are in this position due to a failure of leadership from Governor DeSantis who has been providing a platform for conspiracy theorists and extremism by denying the efficacy of vaccines and science-based public health policies," Fried said in a statement. "The governor himself is now trying to enact his own mandates to block businesses, local governments, and school boards from protecting their own constituents. Once again, Governor DeSantis is putting his personal ambitions ahead of the well-being of Floridians."

 (CNN)For the first time in nearly a century, members of the public will be able to walk on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier plaza and lay flowers before the sacred memorial site in Arlington National Cemetery on Tuesday and Wednesday. 
It's the first time in 96 years that visitors have been allowed to approach the Tomb, according to Karen Durham-Aguilera, the executive director of Army National Military Cemeteries and Arlington National Cemetery. 
The rare chance for the public to get close to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier falls on its centennial commemoration. 

"The next two days will truly be a historic and once-in-a-lifetime opportunity," she said Tuesday morning, kicking off the start of the Tomb's two-day flower ceremony.
The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier has been a final resting place for three unknown US service members, beginning in 1921, but has also served as a symbolic grave for unidentified or unlocated American solders. 
"As you lay your flower, we at Arlington encourage you to reflect on the meaning of the Tomb. By the simple act of laying a flower, you are not only honoring the three unknowns buried here but all unknown or missing American service members who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our nation," Tim Frank, the Arlington National Cemetery's historian, said during Tuesday's opening ceremony. 
Tuesday's start of the flower ceremony also included a smudging ceremony and a prayer led by Crow Nation.
On Tuesday morning, a crowd of people and families, including Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas, an Army combat veteran, lined up to place a flower at the Tomb. 
The public will be able to lay a flower at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. ET on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Arlington National Cemetery said on its website that it does "anticipate holding another event in our lifetimes in which the public will be able to approach the Tomb in this manner."

Visitors to the Arlington National Cemetery will need to provide a government-issued ID for entry.
There will be an invite-only wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier on the nation's observance of Veterans Day on Thursday, which President Joe Biden plans to attend.

Washington (CNN)The US and its allies restart Iran nuclear talks on Monday unsure how Tehran's new government will approach negotiations, not optimistic about the prospects ahead and emphasizing that if diplomacy fails, the US is "prepared to use other options."
The parties to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action will reconvene in Vienna after almost six months to discuss a mutual return to the deal by both the US and Iran, but the hiatus has given time for new obstacles to take root. 
On Friday, Iran announced yet more advances in its uranium enrichment, which reduces the amount of time Tehran would need to develop a nuclear weapon, if it chooses to, an announcement clearly meant to give Iran leverage when it arrives in Vienna for talks.  
Other parties to the agreement -- including Germany, the UK, Britain, France, China and Russia -- are coming into the talks calling for negotiations to pick up where they left off. European sources tell CNN they expect the Iranians to treat the meeting as "round one." US officials have expressed similar concerns.
The recently elected hardline government in Tehran will send a new set of negotiators to Vienna who have been emphasizing the need for complete US sanctions relief, not compliance with the deal, while US officials have said they have absolutely no plans to offer Iran incentives to talk. 
'The time to choose is short'
And senior US officials have repeatedly warned that if advances in Iran's nuclear program and enrichment capability continue unabated, they could render the benefits of the JCPOA moot -- a development that would force the US to pursue other options. 
"We are still hopeful that diplomacy can find a way," Brett McGurk, the National Security Council's coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa, told the Manama Dialogue organized by the International Institute for Strategic Studies. "But if it cannot find a way, we are prepared to use other options." 
"There is no question, we are not going to allow Iran to get a nuclear weapon, period," McGurk said. "And when it came to military force for behavior change, that is a pretty fuzzy objective for a military force. When it comes to military force to prevent a country from obtaining a nuclear weapon, that is a very achievable objective."
US Special Envoy for Iran Rob Malley said in a tweet after a November 18 meeting with Middle Eastern allies and European parties to the deal that Iran could choose one of two paths: "continued nuclear escalation & crisis, or mutual return to the JCPOA, creating opportunities for regional economic & diplomatic ties."  
"Time to choose is short," Malley wrote.
Sources familiar with preparations for the talks say that the parties were closely watching International Atomic Energy Agency director Rafael Grossi's visit to Tehran last week, seeing it as an indication of Iran's approach to the talks in Vienna, those sources said. Grossi told the IAEA board afterward that the talks were "inconclusive." 
One of the contentious issues remaining is that Iran is refusing inspectors from the IAEA monitoring access to the Karaj centrifuge production facility, which reports suggest has resumed operations. 
"This is seriously affecting the [IAEA's] ability to restore continuity of knowledge at the [Karaj] workshop, which has been widely recognized as essential in relation to a return to the JCPOA," Grossi told a Board of Governors meeting on Wednesday. 
The Arms Control Association noted that Iran's refusal to allow the IAEA to install new cameras or confirm that production hasn't restarted could undermine attempts to revitalize the JCPOA and its strict verification regime if it isn't possibly to fully complete records of Iran's nuclear program. Tehran's refusal to grant access to Karaj also drives speculation and concern about what, exactly, Iran is doing, the ACA said. 
'No choice'
On Thursday, the US Mission to International Organizations in Vienna told the IAEA meeting that "if Iran's non-cooperation is not immediately remedied ... especially the restoration of continuity of knowledge at Karaj, the Board will have no choice but to reconvene in extraordinary session before the end of this year in order to address the crisis." 
Meanwhile, on Friday, Iran announced its stock of 60% enriched uranium has grown to 66 pounds (30 kilograms) and its amount of 20% enriched uranium had also increased. Both levels are much closer to weapons-grade uranium which is enriched above 90%. 
According to the Arms Control Association, enriching uranium to 20% "constitutes about 90 percent of the necessary work to enrich to weapons-grade." 
As Iran's stockpiles grow, the ACA says, its breakout time, or the time it would take to produce enough uranium enriched to weapons-grade for one bomb, decreases. The ACA estimates that Iran's current breakout time is likely about one month, down from 12 months when the JCPOA was fully implemented.
Enrichment was limited under the JCPOA, which the US left unilaterally in May 2018 under former President Donald Trump. Iran restarted enrichment last year to pressure the US to ease sanctions. 
'A very uncertain proposition'
State Department spokesman Ned Price reflected the ambiguity surrounding the resumed talks on November 22, calling the mutual return to compliance with the JCPOA "a very uncertain proposition."
The next day, Price told reporters in Washington that, "it is our hope that the new government in Iran shows up in Vienna and shows up in Vienna ready to negotiate in good faith to build on the progress that had been achieved in the previous six rounds of negotiations." 
But he added that the US has "been very clear that we are not prepared to take unilateral steps solely for the benefit of greasing the wheel" to get the talks going again. Former President Donald Trump pulled the US from the deal in 2018.
Sources familiar with the preparations for the talks have told CNN that the US and its allies are not at a point where they would begin offering Iran confidence building measures, but one official said there is a possibility the US and its allies could employ them down the road. As a result, incentives for Iran won't be discussed at this week's meetings in Vienna, where the US and allies will be focused on simply taking the temperature and seeking to advance from where they left off months ago, US and European sources explained.    
'Plan B'
Everyone involved in the talks is mindful of the ticking clock. The sources told CNN that there's still time to reach a deal, but it would likely run out by the end of next year. For now, they said there is no hard and fast "Plan B" yet. 
Critics of the deal say that the Biden administration has sacrificed leverage by easing pressure on Iran while it builds up its nuclear program.
"The Biden administration's Iran policy is failing, and without a significant course correction that policy will either result in Iranian nuclear weapons or in a war to stop that development," said Mark Dubowitz, the CEO of Foundation for Defense of Democracies. Dubowitz argued that the administration's approach will allow Iran to rebuild toward a "lethal end state" of with pathways to nuclear weapons and a robust nuclear infrastructure. 
"Israel is going to have no choice but to use military force to stop Iran's nuclear weapons before Tehran reaches this lethal end state," Dubowitz said.
Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has been making clear that Israel will be prepared to act if necessary. Addressing delegates at a security conference near Tel Aviv on Tuesday, Bennett said that "if there is a return to the JCPOA, Israel obviously is not a party to the agreement and is not obligated by it." 
Bennett complained that after the nuclear deal was signed in 2015, the "State of Israel simply went to sleep. We were occupied with other things. We will learn from this mistake. We will maintain our freedom of action," he said.
Western officials have tried to argue to the Israelis that attacks on Israel's nuclear program are not very useful when the overall goal is to come up with a comprehensive solution, and especially when the Iranians have sped up their capability to rebuild after attacks, sources familiar with the Iran talks have told CNN. 
Western officials have also raised the danger of Iran responding with kinetic action, but sources familiar with the talks say Israeli officials still seem to think that it is still an effective tool to show their capabilities.
Asked about those warnings, Price said that, "at the end of the day, the United States and Israel, we share a common objective here, and that is to see to it that Iran is verifiably and permanently prevented from obtaining a nuclear weapon. And we continue to believe that diplomacy in coordination with our allies and partners -- and that, of course, includes Israel -- is the best path to achieve that goal."
"We've also been very clear that this is not a process that can go on indefinitely and if the Iranians through their actions or through their inactions demonstrate or suggest that they lack that good faith, that they lack that clarity of purpose, we'll have to turn to other means," Price said Tuesday. "We have a variety of other means we're discussing those with our allies and partners."
Diplomatic flurry
In recent weeks, US officials have conducted a flurry of diplomacy with regional powers and other parties to the deal, working to forge a united front.  
President Joe Biden met with European partners to discuss Iran during the June G7 meetings in the UK. In recent weeks, Secretary of State Antony Blinken has also conferred with European allies, as well as China and Russia, on Iran. And Malley recently met with Gulf countries, Israeli officials and European partners in the JCPOA. 
"I think the Iranians believe they have some eastward option with Russia and China in which they can circumvent the pressure of sanctions," McGurk said on Sunday. "And that is just wrong. And so I think we are approaching the talks at the end of November as a pretty united front with the P5+1."
CNN's Andrew Carey in Israel and CNN's Mostafa Salem in Abu Dhabi contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)The House probe into the Capitol insurrection is making its most significant strides yet in gaining understanding of Donald Trump's behind-the-scenes maneuvering before and during his coup attempt against American democracy.
The Democratic-led committee is acting on multiple fronts but is in a race against time. First, it is confronted by the ex-President's obstruction as he tries to dodge accountability. And haunting the panel's every move is the possibility of a new Republican-led House after the 2022 midterm elections that would likely close it down. The committee was in court Thursday fighting Trump's bid to keep documents about what happened in the White House on January 6 on dusty National Archives shelves. It's firing off new subpoenas as it tries to sketch a true picture of what really happened in the days running up to that shocking day. And on Friday, a key member of the inner circle that gathered around Trump ahead of those dark hours is expected to show up on Capitol Hill for an interview.
Ultimately, the committee is charged with producing clarity about one of the most aberrant days in American history. Although what happened now feels less alarming, partly because of the repetition of video of Trump supporters invading the Capitol and the attempts by Republicans and conservative media to rewrite history, it is still staggering. An American President refused to accept the result of a fair, democratic election and tried to defy the will of voters by using the power of his office and violence to steal another term.
In an apparently positive sign for the investigators, a federal judge Thursday expressed skepticism over Trump's broad assertions of executive privilege over hundreds of documents related to his actions on January 6 that he is struggling to keep secret.
At a dramatic moment in the hearing on the matter, Judge Tanya Chutkan asked Trump's lawyers why they were arguing that he had the right to stop public access to the records, following the assault on the Capitol.
"Are you really saying that the President's notes, talking points, telephone conversations, on January 6 have no relation to the matter on which Congress is considering legislation?" she asked. "The January 6 riot happened in the Capitol. That is literally Congress' house." Chutkan has yet to rule. But in a move that may buttress their legal case, several committee members have said they are considering drawing up legislation to stop any similar coup attempt.
The committee on Friday could get its most intriguing glimpse yet into Trump's behavior in the dangerous days earlier this year when America's democracy was on the brink. Jeffrey Clark, the former Justice Department official who floated plans to give Georgia's legislature backing to undermine popular vote results, is expected to comply with a subpoena and sit for an interview with the committee. Clark also pushed unfounded conspiracy theories about voter fraud, and at one point was involved in dramatic consultations with Trump in the Oval Office about possibly becoming acting attorney general, according to a Senate investigation released last month.
More subpoenas coming soon 
A week after Congress cited Trump's onetime political guru and former White House official Steve Bannon for contempt of Congress after he ignored a subpoena, January 6 committee Chairman Bennie Thompson said Thursday that more subpoenas are on the way. The Mississippi Democrat said the subpoenas would come out "soon," possibly by Friday. He would not confirm if former Trump lawyer John Eastman, whom CNN has reported is likely to be subpoenaed, is part of that group. But he said: "Some of the people have been written about. Some of the people haven't been written about."

Eastman has emerged as a central figure in Trump's efforts to subvert the constitutional process of certifying a new president and to defy the will of voters with his attempt to cling to power. The conservative lawyer drew up a now-notorious memo with step-by-step instructions about how then-Vice President Mike Pence, who was presiding over the certification process, could throw the election result into the House of Representatives, where a majority of Republican delegations could award the presidency to Trump. 
Many legal scholars have suggested Eastman's reasoning is hairbrained and unconstitutional. But multiple reports suggest that Trump, whose ego could not accept that he had been beaten fair and square by Joe Biden, took it seriously. And CNN's KFile reported that Eastman said on Bannon's radio show in January that the scheme depended on if Pence had "courage and the spine."
In another development on Thursday that shows the gathering pace of the House select committee's work, its vice chairman, GOP Rep. Liz Cheney of Wyoming, revealed that investigators had interviewed 150 people despite lengthy negotiations with other subpoenaed Trump officials and associates that are delaying testimony.
Trump is also facing scrutiny outside Washington. Investigators in Fulton County, Georgia, are considering whether his pressure on the Peach State's Republican secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, to find votes to cancel out Biden's win in the state was criminal.
CNN's Sara Murray and Jason Morris revealed on Thursday that even Trump's post-presidential campaign of lies and chicanery on the issue is within the scope of the investigation. Prosecutors have, for instance, sought an original copy of a letter that Trump sent to Raffensperger in September demanding that he decertify an election that had taken place 10 months earlier. 
But it's the House committee that represents the last chance for an official accounting of the worst attack on democracy in modern American history. Republicans have sought to thwart the committee every step of the way -- even pulling support for a bipartisan deal on an independent 9/11-style commission after Trump loudly complained. While the select committee is led by Democrats, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi also appointed Cheney and Rep. Adam Kinzinger of Illinois to sit on the panel. Both Republicans are staunch conservatives but outspoken critics of Trump's anti-democratic antics -- a stance that has ostracized them in their party. Pro-Trump forces plan to challenge Cheney for her seat in Wyoming and she lost a plumb party leadership post in the House Republican conference earlier this year. Kinzinger just announced he would retire at the end of his term after expressing despair over his party's failure to defend the rule of law.
Rep. Jamie Raskin, the lead impeachment manager in Trump's trial earlier this year and a member of the committee, explained on CNN last Saturday why it was so interested in getting the trove of documents.
"We want to document a complete record of everything that was going on, really minute by minute, during the day of the insurrection," the Maryland Democrat said.
Time is running short for committee
The urgency facing the committee was only underscored this week as large swings away from Democrats in the Virginia and New Jersey gubernatorial races reinforced fears in the party that it will lose the House in the midterm elections.
It is almost inconceivable that Republicans who have anchored their campaign for 2022 on Trump's base voters would continue to investigate the Capitol insurrection if they take power. And the ex-President's growing attempt to hide his role on January 6 is taking place as he plots a political comeback that could be damaged by a damning report from the committee.
Even if it ends up being frivolous, his legal campaign could delay the turnover of documents, schedules and call lists, including some related to former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows. Biden has refused to shield the documents with executive privilege -- a concept meant to offer presidents the confidence that private consultations with advisers on matters of state will remain confidential.
But Trump is also clearly keen to prevent the committee finding out how involved he may have been in planning the Capitol riot and what steps he failed to take to quell it as lawmakers fled for their lives and police officers were beaten up by his supporters. His efforts are a key component of his increasingly likely 2024 campaign, as he eyes another term, which would likely test the strength of democratic institutions even more than his first.
Even if the judge rules against Trump in the case, it is likely the former President will lodge appeals up to and including the Supreme Court.
Former presidents are considered to have some expectation of executive privilege, but the final say on the scope of that protection rests with the person holding the office of the presidency, not with the ex-President. Biden has said he believes that the circumstances of the Capitol insurrection are so grave that Congress has an interest in finding out what happened and so he declined to help Trump's bid to stop the National Archives from releasing the documents.
John Dean, White House counsel to President Richard Nixon and a key witness in the Watergate investigation, said he didn't believe that Judge Chutkan was buying the Trump team's arguments on executive privilege.
Dean thinks that ultimately the courts will not uphold Trump's attempt to assert privilege over all the documents but could narrow the select committee's request.
"I think in the long run there will be a limited right for a former president to withhold documents -- otherwise it makes this privilege meaningless -- but not an over-broad privilege that Trump is trying," Dean told CNN's Jake Tapper on Thursday.
CNN's Katelyn Polantz, Marshall Cohen, Annie Grayer and Ryan Nobles contributed to this report.
 (CNN)Richard Barron, who oversees elections in Georgia's biggest Democratic county, is announcing his resignation Wednesday -- following a tumultuous year that has included death threats against him and his staff and the potential takeover of election operations in the county by state officials.
His announcement comes one day after municipal elections that he and other Fulton County, Georgia, officials said ran relatively smoothly.
Barron's departure underscores the precarious position of election officials, who have faced unprecedented personal attacks in the last year and punishing new laws that threaten to sideline professional supervisors and install partisan actors in their stead.
Election observers have warned for months that the country could face a mass exodus of experienced election supervisors if the onslaught of threats continues, driven by relentless falsehoods that election fraud contributed to former President Donald Trump's loss a year ago.
"I think we have a lot of cowardly elected officials who won't let go of the 'Big Lie' because they are scared of their constituents," Barron told CNN in an interview. "If they could have stood up, they could have put an end to this a long time ago."
Barron said he's faced a threat to "serve him lead," and another that talked about "taking me out by hanging or a firing squad." He previously told CNN that he had spoken with the FBI as part of an investigation into the threats.
Barron, 55, has led Fulton County elections since 2013. He said he will leave his post December 31. He said he plans to oversee operations in the runoff in the race for Atlanta mayor, which is scheduled for November 30.
His tenure has been rocky in recent years. 
A June 2020 primary -- during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic -- was marred by hours-long lines and complaints that voters failed to receive the absentee ballots that they had requested. The general election and the January Senate runoffs operated more smoothly.
Trump and his allies repeatedly targeted Fulton County with fraud claims, following the former President's narrow loss to Joe Biden in the state. At one point, Trump asked Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger to "find" the more than 11,000 votes needed to overturn Biden's victory. 
Republicans in the Georgia legislature cited election integrity and voter concerns about fraud to enact a sweeping law this year that imposes new ID identification requirements on mail-in voting and other restrictions. It also took aim at practices Fulton County used in 2020, such as mobile voting units, to expand voting opportunities during the coronavirus pandemic. 
The law also paved the way for state officials to take control of local county elections operations, following a performance review.
In August, the Georgia state board of elections appointed a panel to review Fulton County's operations -- advancing an effort that could see a Republican takeover of this Democratic stronghold in a state that has become a crucial battleground in presidential and congressional contests. 
Following the 2020 election, Barron became the public face of the county's election operation -- and a target for threats -- as former President Donald Trump and his allies advanced debunked claims of Fulton County workers burning and otherwise destroying ballots.
But Barron has faced criticism for Fulton County's operations from some state and local officials. 
Carter Jones, a nonpartisan state-appointed monitor assigned to review Fulton County's operations, reported this year that he had uncovered signs of "systemic disorganization" in the election office. But Jones said he found no evidence of "illegality, fraud or intentional malfeasance." 
A separate state investigation is under way after two Fulton County employees were fired last month for shredding voter registration applications.
Earlier this year, the county's elections board voted to fire Barron, only to have the Fulton County commissioners overrule that decision and extend his tenure. 

Washington (CNN)LGBTQ advocates filed a federal lawsuit Thursday seeking to overturn Tennessee's anti-trans sports ban, which they say violates the constitutional rights of a trans high school athlete in the state. 
The lawsuit was brought by the American Civil Liberties Union, the ACLU of Tennessee and the pro-LGBTQ rights group Lambda Legal on behalf of a freshman student in the state who claims in the suit that the law prevents him from trying out for the boys' golf team at his school. 
Republican Gov. Bill Lee approved SB 228 earlier this year, which requires public middle and high school students to play sports based on the sex listed on their original birth certificates, something supporters of the legislation claim is necessary to preserve teams composed solely of cisgender women and girls. 
"SB 228 was passed not to protect female athletes but to marginalize transgender people. The law amounts to a bare desire to harm a politically unpopular group, which is an impermissible government purpose and fails any level of equal protection scrutiny," the lawsuit states, referring to the Equal Protection Clause of the Constitution's 14th Amendment.
Attorneys for the group are asking a federal judge in the state to declare the law unconstitutional as well as in violation of Title IX, a federal law that bars gender discrimination in education. They name a number of state officials as defendants in the suit, including Lee. 
CNN has reached out to Lee's office for comment on the lawsuit. 
Thursday's lawsuit is the latest legal challenge brought in Tennessee this year by LGBTQ advocates seeking to throw out laws that they say discriminate against transgender people. In early August, the Human Rights Campaign sued the state in an effort to block enforcement of a new law it says will prevent trans people from using bathrooms and other facilities at public schools consistent with their gender identity. 
In July, a federal judge temporarily blocked West Virginia's enforcement of a similar anti-trans sports ban in a suit filed by Lambda Legal and the ACLU. In that case, the judge said he had "been provided with scant evidence that this law addresses any problem at all, let alone an important problem."
Leslie Cooper, the deputy director of the ACLU's LGBTQ and HIV Project, said in a statement that Thursday's suit "is the ACLU's fifth challenge to an anti-trans law that has passed this year," adding that "there is no reason, apart from the legislature's desire to express its disapproval of transgender people, to keep (the plaintiff) from playing on the boys' golf team." 
The Biden administration's Education Department issued guidance earlier this year that Title IX prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, a reversal of the Trump administration's stance that gay and transgender students are not protected by the law. 
The new lawsuit comes on the heels of a record-setting year for anti-trans legislation, with 10 states enacting anti-trans sports bans, according to the Human Rights Campaign. 
This summer, a federal judge temporarily blocked a different anti-trans bathroom law in Tennessee. That legislation would require businesses in the state that have gender-inclusive bathroom policies to post signs indicating that they allow transgender or other nonbinary people to use the bathrooms that match their gender identity, something LGBTQ advocates say is "offensive and humiliating" for members of the community and could lead to harassment for trans people and the businesses.
CNN's Nicki Camberg contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney said at a New Hampshire event on Tuesday that the United States is "confronting a domestic threat that we have never faced before" in the form of former President Donald Trump, who she said is "attempting to unravel the foundations of our constitutional republic."
Cheney also sharply criticized House Republicans for continuing to support Trump, saying that Trump reportedly said that the insurrection was on Election Day, rather than January 6, at the conference's annual fundraising dinner on Monday night.
"Political leaders who sit silent in the face of these false and dangerous claims are aiding the former President who is at war with the rule of law, and the Constitution," Cheney said. "When our constitutional order is threatened, as it is now, rising above partisanship is not simply an aspiration. It is an obligation."
Cheney is the top Republican on the House select committee investigating the attack on the Capitol, and was one of 10 House Republicans to vote to impeach Trump for "incitement of insurrection" following it.
"We are also confronting a domestic threat that we have never faced before: A former president who's attempting to unravel the foundations of our constitutional republic, aided by political leaders, who have made themselves willing hostages to this dangerous and irrational man," said Cheney after ticking off the threats the US faces around the world.
Cheney gave on Tuesday the keynote address for a First Amendment award given by the Saint Anselm College's Institute of Politics. Her comments are sure to prompt speculation about a 2024 presidential run, which could potentially be against the former President. Cheney mentioned in her speech some of her ancestors who lived in New Hampshire, which holds the first primary, that she is a "conservative Republican" who disagrees "strongly with nearly everything President Biden has done since he has been in office," and supports "limited government, low taxes, a strong national defense" and family values.
But while she opposed Biden's policies, she repeatedly took aim at the former President, calling him a "liar" who "tragically misled" Americans and "provoked violence" on January 6.
"I love my party. I love its history. I love its principles," Cheney said. "But I love my country more. I know this nation needs a Republican Party that is based on truth."  
"We need a Republican Party that is led by people who remember that the peaceful transfer of power is sacred," she added. "We need Republican leaders who remember that fidelity to the Constitution, fidelity to the rule of law — those are the most conservative of conservative principles."
In a statement on Tuesday, Trump again ripped the work of Cheney and her colleagues on the House committee investigating the deadly attack on the Capitol and falsely claimed that his 2020 loss was "fraudulent."
"The Unselect Committee of politically ambitious hacks continues to subpoena people wanting to know about those protesting, on January 6th, the insurrection which took place during the Presidential Election of November 3rd," Trump said. "That's right, the Committee is studying the PROTEST when it should be studying the Fraudulent Election that led to the protest. As the LameStream Media knows, the facts are there for all to see!"
CNN's David Wright contributed to this report.
Atlanta  (CNN)When Patricia Dossie left her senior housing apartment west of downtown Atlanta to vote on Tuesday, she was certain of her destination: a recreation center about 6 miles away. 
"I've been voting there for years," the 73-year-old said. But she and two of her neighbors found they were no longer on the voting list at that precinct. And because Georgia's new election law bars most voters from casting ballots outside their home polling places, the elderly trio made yet another trek -- this time, to the right polling place, at a small neighborhood library, to vote in the city's mayoral election.
Dossie, a Democrat, said she has no idea how to look up her polling place online. And she views the changes to state law as Republican retribution for Joe Biden's victory there last year, when he became the first Democrat to win Georgia in nearly three decades. "So many came out for Biden, and I feel this is their way to keep us from voting," she said. "It's not right."
In Georgia, voters like Dossie learned firsthand about some of the effects of new voting restrictions on Tuesday as they cast ballots in the first election since the law passed in March.
Tuesday's low-key, low-turnout municipal election offered voting rights activists a chance to try out new tactics as they look for ways to navigate the law's restrictions ahead of next year's high-stakes battles and the 2024 presidential contest. Next year, Georgians will pick a governor and decide the future of the seat now held by Democratic Sen. Raphael Warnock, potentially determining which party controls the US Senate after the midterm elections.
"We're testing out the whole process," said Stephanie Ali, policy director of the New Georgia Project, one voting advocacy group, "because when this turnout is multiplied tenfold, these issues are going to become much bigger."
Tuesday's election also marked a test for the people who run local elections. Another test of Fulton County's system is quickly approaching: a runoff to pick Atlanta's next mayor is scheduled for November 30. 
Georgia is one of 19 states that have enacted new voting restrictions this year, according to the Brennan Center for Justice -- amid a drive by Republican-controlled legislatures to tighten voting rules. Former President Donald Trump has demanded the changes as he falsely claims that widespread fraud contributed to his loss last year.
Election experiments
Georgia was the first presidential battleground to bundle its new voting rules into a sweeping omnibus package that changed an array of practices. Among other things, the law establishes new ID requirements to vote by mail, slashes the number of ballot drop boxes available in heavily populated areas such as Atlanta and limits the use of provisional ballots as a way for people who show up in the wrong locations to still have their votes count. 
Provisional ballots are now limited to voters who arrive after 5 p.m. at the wrong polling places. They also must sign sworn statements, explaining why they cannot vote in their home precincts before polls close.
Tossing out most out-of-precinct votes could make a big difference in a close contest. 
In 2020, for instance, more than two-thirds of the more than 3,600 provisional ballots accepted in Fulton County alone came from people who had voted in the wrong precincts. Biden won the state by fewer than 12,000 votes.
Georgia law also makes it a crime to deliver snacks or water to voters as they wait in line.
On Tuesday, workers with the New Georgia Project spent the day road-testing ways to encourage voting without running afoul of the law. They paid musicians to offer a "Party at the Polls" program to entertain waiting voters. They gave voters like Dossie free rides to the polls. 
And outside one polling place -- at a Baptist church on the city's east side --  a New Georgia Project volunteer and staffer teamed up to offer water and coffee to voters. They did so from a table across the street, at the insistence, they said, of the election supervisor running the polling place. That put them beyond even the 150-foot buffer zone the law establishes. 
Back at the group's headquarters, Aklima Khondoker, the New Georgia Project's chief legal officer, schooled "voter protection" volunteers via videoconference on how to report irregularities at polling places.
Ali, the policy director, said the organization has begun conversations with local officials over problems it spotted. And it already was considering ways to retool its operations, following Tuesday's experience. Changes might include training volunteer drivers on the use of a mobile app that helps voters find their polling locations, she said.

Fulton County in the spotlight
In Fulton County, the biggest Democratic county in Georgia, officials said the municipal elections operated relatively smoothly. A little more than 168,000 of the county's nearly 790,000 voters cast ballots on Tuesday, according to Fulton's tally. 
The county faces the prospect of a takeover of its election system by state officials who are conducting a performance review. The new election law authorizes such reviews, and it could trigger removal of the local election board and allow Republican officials to install new election supervision in the county, which includes much of Atlanta.
And on Wednesday, the county's election chief, Richard Barron, announced his resignation following a tumultuous year marked by personal threats and claims of election fraud.
Fulton's election operations have been under intense scrutiny for years. 
Officials oversaw a June 2020 primary plagued by long voting lines and complaints that voters had failed to receive their absentee ballots by mail. The voting process improved by the 2020 general election and this year's runoffs for the US Senate.
But last month, two Fulton County workers were fired for allegedly shredding voter registration forms, further fueling the Republican-led investigation of the office.
Still, on Tuesday, election officials reported short lines and only a few technical glitches. At two polling places, for instance, technicians did not show up with voter check-in tablets on Tuesday morning, forcing the use of emergency paper ballots, Barron told CNN. He said those polls still opened on time.
"This was a good day for us," Rob Pitts, the chairman of the Fulton County Board of Commissioners, told reporters Tuesday night, inside the cavernous warehouse where the county workers tabulate votes. 
Members of the state review board monitored operations closely Tuesday, including joining Barron at the county's call center as officials fielded complaints. 
Election officials and activists said it was hard to determine precisely why some voters went to the wrong precincts on Tuesday. Some polling places used during the height of the pandemic last year were no longer available for this week's elections, Barron said. About 16 polling places had changed, he added.
In a roughly 20-minute period, four voters showed up at one Atlanta library to vote on Tuesday afternoon only to be turned away and directed to other polling places. Barron said the site had been used as an early voting location, which may have contributed to confusion.
One of those residents, Greg Smith, said he had voted at the library in the 2020 general election and this year's Senate runoff. He said it was inconvenient to go to a second location but that he had the day off from work and had the time to travel to the new polling place.
There's little sign that the spotlight on Fulton County will dim.
Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, who drew Trump's ire after he rebuffed the then-President's post-election entreaty to "find" the votes to overturn Trump's loss in the state, has criticized a provision in the new law that dumped him as a voting member of the state elections board.
But Raffensperger -- who is facing a Republican primary challenge from a Trump-endorsed candidate, Rep. Jody Hice -- stands by many of the law's new measures, including the heightened scrutiny of Fulton County's operations. He recently has called for a US Justice Department investigation into the destroyed registration forms. His office also is investigating the incident.
"The 2020 primary was probably the catalyst for the General Assembly to say, 'Enough is enough,' " when it comes to Fulton County, he told CNN. "Someone needs to have the power to replace a failing county elections board."
In an interview with CNN, Pitts criticized the attacks as politically motivated and said they will persist no matter how much Fulton County improves its performance.
"This is all about 2022 and 2024," he said. "They are engaged in an all-out assault on our voters because they are determined to never let a Democrat win the state again. And we're going to fight them tooth and nail."

 (CNN)More than a decade before he was assigned the criminal contempt case brought against Steve Bannon, Judge Carl Nichols was a top Justice Department lawyer deeply involved in pushing sweeping arguments in favor of shielding an ex-presidential adviser from congressional testimony. 
Nichols -- who was appointed to the bench in 2019 by former President Donald Trump -- will now oversee the Justice Department's case against Bannon, a former Trump adviser, for Bannon's alleged noncompliance with the House's January 6 investigation. 
Just as notable as the president who put Nichols on the bench is the judge's experience defending Harriet Miers, who served as White House counsel to President George W. Bush, when lawmakers brought civil litigation against her for her refusal to show up for testimony subpoenaed by the House. Bannon has pleaded not guilty, and if the case goes to trial, it could be a jury that ultimately determines his guilt. But Nichols will be deciding crucial legal and procedural questions that arise before and during an eventual trial.
"That experience -- it gives him a lot of foundation for some of the arguments that Bannon is likely to raise," said Jonathan Shaub, a University of Kentucky Rosenberg College of Law professor and expert in privilege issues. 
RELATED: What's next in the investigation of January 6
The claims the Bush Justice Department made in court -- including in oral arguments presented by Nichols himself, then a principal deputy attorney general -- were rejected in district court and the dispute was eventually settled by the Obama administration before an appeals court could fully weigh in on the merits.
Nonetheless, the Miers case featured prominently in the subpoena battles of the Trump administration, which have set the stage for the coming court fights over Congress' probes into the Capitol riot. 
Prosecutors will be grappling with legal questions unique to the Bannon case that could complicate the Justice Department's path to a Bannon conviction. But some of those distinctions may make it easier for Nichols to issue decisions against the Trump ally, legal experts say -- whatever sympathy the judge still has for the arguments he made over a decade ago.
"I do think that that if there's one judge that knows the issue well, it would be Judge Nichols," said Rick Kaplan, a lawyer who represented the House committee in in the Miers case. "A case like Miers hadn't come up in many, many years before that, so it was breaking new ground." 
'A history of defending aggressive interpretations of executive privilege" 
Miers was subpoenaed by a Democratic-controlled House in its investigation into the firings of several US attorneys under President George W. Bush. The case was an exceedingly rare occurrence of Congress trying to use civil litigation to enforce compliance with a subpoena of an executive branch official. 
Miers had already left her role as White House counsel at the time she was subpoenaed, but the Bush administration argued that since the inquiry concerned her work as a close presidential adviser, she was shielded by an absolute immunity that allowed her to avoid even appearing for testimony -- arguments that were echoed by the Trump administration when the House sued Trump's former White House counsel Don McGahn in 2019 for his refusal to comply with a congressional subpoena. 
Nichols presented the DOJ's arguments in the Miers case when it was heard in the district court and when it was before a DC Circuit appeals court panel. 
"I think our briefs make clear that the need for immunity is based not just on the need to protect the President's interest in confidentiality, which can be protected at least in some ways by executive privilege but also the ability to protect the President's autonomy and how he exercises his constitutional duties and obligations," Nichols said at a July 2008 district court hearing in the case. 
The Justice Department -- in briefs signed by Nichols and other top Bush DOJ officials -- argued not just that Miers was constitutionally immune from showing up to testify, but that the judicial branch had no authority to settle the civil lawsuit brought by Congress. (That argument won't be available to Bannon as he faces a criminal prosecution from the executive branch.)
"Judge Nichols, at the time, presented the executive branch's arguments, which are very aggressive in their in their views on the ability [presidential] advisers to refuse to turn over information," said Emily Berman, a professor at University of Houston Law Center who had submitted a friend-of-the-court brief in the Miers case on behalf of several public interest organizations.  
"He'll be quite familiar with the issues and hopefully, at least, it will allow him to rule relatively expeditiously on some of these things," Berman said. "But I think it is significant that he's got a history of defending aggressive interpretations of executive privilege." 
The arguments Bannon is now making to justify not participating in the current House probe are even more aggressive than the claims the Bush DOJ made in the Miers case, Berman said. And it's worth noting that just because a lawyer makes certain arguments on behalf of a client -- which, for Nichols in the Miers dispute, was the US government's executive branch -- doesn't mean that the lawyer personally agrees with those arguments, or that he will carry them with him to the bench.  
In his two-plus years on the bench, Nichols has made several rulings against the interests of the President who appointed him. 
Nichols shot down the Trump administration's attempts to ban TikTok and refused to dismiss a defamation lawsuit against Trump allies for their false 2020 election fraud claims. He also rebuffed Trump arguments in a case concerning potential disclosure of his tax returns to Congress. 
Experience that will be 'helpful in his assessments' 
Bannon is facing a criminal prosecution from the Biden administration, which acted on a referral from the House, whereas the Bush Justice Department declined to prosecute Miers, prompting lawmakers to bring a civil lawsuit against her instead.  
The issues raised by the Miers case and the Bannon case aren't the same, said Jody Hunt, a former top DOJ lawyer who was involved in the Miers case.
"But I do think the fact that Judge Nichols had handled those other matters gives him an experience that's helpful in his assessments, because he understands a lot about these issues already," Hunt said.
In the Miers case, the DOJ argued that the court should not get involved in the dispute because criminal contempt -- as well as tools held by lawmakers, like executive branch funding decisions and nominee confirmations -- were the appropriate avenues for pressuring compliance with subpoenas. In the district court arguments, Nichols described the department's view that "Congress cannot sue the executive branch in federal court seeking information it had subpoenaed from the executive branch in aid of its legislative function." 
Nichols also emphasized the 200-year tradition of Congress and the executive branch negotiating accommodations around subpoena compliance, arguing that a court intervention in the dispute would spoil that process. Department lawyers stressed in the case how the Bush administration had accommodated some of the Congress' information requests before reaching the impasse over Miers' testimony. 
Bannon notably did not engage at all in negotiations with lawmakers about cooperating, beyond a letter his attorney sent the House January 6 committee informing lawmakers that he would be following former President Trump's directive not to participate in their investigation. 
"I think Bannon has made it easier on DOJ -- and on Nichols in adjudicating this -- by just sort of totally not complying because, privilege: one, it's qualified. It only applies to certain information. And there's this tradition of negotiating," Shaub, who worked for the Justice Department under the Obama administration, told CNN. 
While Miers, like Bannon, was not a government official when Congress was seeking her testimony, lawmakers' interest was in events that occurred during her service at the White House. Bannon -- as lawmakers are pointing out now -- was long out of the White House when the Capitol riot and the related events unfolded. 
But because this is a criminal prosecution, and not a civil matter, there will be hurdles the Justice Department will have to overcome that were not present when the House was seeking to order Miers' compliance with the US Attorneys probe subpoena.  
One possible question in the Bannon case is the weight that can be given to a former president's assertion privilege, as Biden has waived privilege for the purposes of the House's requests of Bannon, while Trump -- in a separate civil case concerning presidential records -- is claiming his assertion privilege can override Biden's waiver of it. 
For Bannon to be found guilty, prosecutors will have to prove -- perhaps ultimately to a jury -- that Bannon had a willful intent to defy Congress' subpoena. Bannon's lawyers are likely to argue he had a good faith reasons for not showing up to testify, claiming he was following the former President's directive and the advice of his attorneys.
"Whereas in the Miers litigation, the sort of ambiguity was acceptable and the court is trying to resolve these questions of privilege and immunity," Shaub said. "Here if there's ambiguity in the law, it's going to be construed in favor of Bannon, because he's a criminal defendant." 

 (CNN)As the new Covid-19 Omicron variant spurs global travel bans, experts say concerns over its impact should prompt millions of unvaccinated Americans to get their shots -- and for those who are eligible, to get their boosters.
"I would hope that within the next week or two weeks, so many of those people will take advantage of the vaccine," Dr. William Schaffner, a professor at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, told CNN's Alisyn Camerota Friday. "That will help us in the immediate term. And I would anticipate that, as bad as Omicron might be, our vaccine still will be partially effective."
Dr. Anthony Fauci echoed that, pointing to vaccinations and boosters as effective mitigation tools. 
"I'm saying this absolutely clearly, that if ever there was a reason for unvaccinated people to get vaccinated and for those who have been vaccinated when your time comes up to go and get a booster shot," Fauci told NBC News on Friday.  
"The booster shots give you a very, very important edge," he said, noting boosters increase the level of antibodies that protect against the virus. 
Data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showed 196 million Americans, or 59% of the US population, was fully vaccinated as of Friday. An additional 37.5 million have received booster shots, the data shows.


After a pandemic that has lasted nearly two years, experts and global leaders are anxious about the impact of the Omicron variant, and many nations have issued travel bans. Besides South Africa, the newly identified variant has been detected in Botswana, Hong Kong, Belgium, Germany, Italy and the Czech Republic.
Two cases of the variant have also been detected in the UK, Secretary of State for Health Sajid Javid said Saturday, prompting British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to announce a series of "targeted" measures to combat the variant.
On Friday, the US moved to restrict travel from eight mostly southern African countries starting Monday as the World Health Organization deemed Omicron, first detected in South Africa, a variant of concern. Travel into the US will be restricted for those entering from Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique, Malawi and South Africa. 
Fauci: 'Would not be surprised' if variant is already in US
Omicron has raised concerns for health officials because there's a possibility it could be more contagious than the original novel coronavirus strain, the WHO said, and it also has a significant number of mutations.  
No cases of the variant have been identified in the US, the CDC said in a statement Friday, adding the agency is working with health officials both in the US and across the globe to learn more. 
The CDC continues to monitor variants, the agency's statement Friday said. "We expect Omicron to be identified quickly, if it emerges in the U.S."
On Saturday morning, however, Fauci told NBC he "would not be surprised" if the variant was already in the US. 

"We have not detected it yet," he said, "but when you have a virus that is showing this degree of transmissibility, and you're having travel-related cases they've noted in other places already, when you have a virus like this, it almost invariably is going to go all over."
Dr. Peter Hotez, a professor and dean of tropical medicine at the Baylor College of Medicine, agreed, telling CNN's Jim Acosta in an interview Saturday, "Yeah, it's likely here." 
Hotez indicated more would be known in the next week or two. In the meantime, it was important to keep things in perspective, he said, including the fact "we've not seen any evidence that Omicron produces more severe disease than any of the other variants." 
"In terms of whether or not this variant is going to resist the immune response to our current vaccines: it's possible, but it's unlikely to be totally resistant," he said. It could be "partially resistant," he added, like other variants that "never really took off, even though they had a lot of concerning mutations in the spike protein."
"The most important thing we really need to know right now is how transmissible is this variant," he said, and whether it is "sufficient to outcompete" the Delta variant. 
"A week from now, if we have this discussion, we'll have a lot more information," Hotez said.
Vaccine makers are working to determine effectiveness against Omicron
Vaccine makers have said they are taking action to address the emergence of a new variant. 
Moderna is working quickly to test the ability of its vaccine to neutralize Omicron, the company said Friday, and data is expected in the coming weeks.
The strain includes mutations "seen in the Delta variant that are believed to increase transmissibility and mutations seen in the Beta and Delta variants that are believed to promote immune escape," Moderna said in a news release. 
"The combination of mutations represents a significant potential risk to accelerate the waning of natural and vaccine-induced immunity."
If its current vaccine and booster are insufficient against the variant, Moderna explained one possible solution is boosting people with a larger dose, which the company is testing. 

The company is also evaluating two multivalent booster candidates to see if they provide better protection against Omicron -- both of which include some of the viral mutations present in the variant. Moderna said it is also testing an Omicron-specific booster.
"For several days, we have been moving as fast as possible to execute our strategy to address this variant," Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel said in the news release.
Scientists at BioNTech, the German company that partnered with Pfizer to make its Covid-19 vaccine, are also investigating the impact of the variant on their shot, with data expected within the upcoming weeks.
A Johnson & Johnson spokesperson told CNN in a statement the company was also testing the effectiveness of its vaccine against Omicron.

Covid-19 travel restrictions aren't all that effective, experts say 
The Biden administration's decision to curtail travel from eight countries is a precautionary measure as the US government learns more about the Omicron variant of coronavirus.
But some experts say travel restrictions aren't as effective as they may seem. 
"Travel bans are modestly effective. They can obviously influence travel directly from that country to the United States," said Schaffner, the doctor at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. 

"But obviously US citizens will be permitted to come back. They could bring the virus. And people could go from the country of interest, South Africa for example, and go to other countries that are not on the travel ban, and enter, if you will, by the side door. So travel bans are somewhat effective, but let's not expect a miracle," he said. 
US citizens, lawful permanent residents and noncitizens who are the spouses of citizens or permanent residents are exempted from the new restrictions. 
Dr. Megan Ranney, a professor of emergency medicine and Associate Dean of Public Health at Brown University, said universal vaccination requirements for all air travel would be more effective. 
"Or having quarantines when people arrive in the U.S. from other countries. Neither of those are particularly politically palatable right now, but they would make a much bigger difference in the spread of this variant," Ranney told CNN's Jim Acosta Friday.
CNN's Jacqueline Howard, Virginia Langmaid, Michael Nedelman, Frederik Pleitgen and Kaitlan Collins contributed to this report. 
Syra Madad, DHSc, MSc, MCP is an infectious disease epidemiologist, senior director of the system-wide special pathogens program at NYC Health + Hospitals, health and safety lead at the Enhanced Investigations Unit of NYC Test & Trace, and fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. She tweets @syramadad. Jacob Glanville, PhD. is a pandemic vaccine and therapeutics developer, CEO of Centivax, previous CEO of Distributed Bio, and affiliate professor of University of San Carlos School of Medicine. He previously worked for Pfizer as principal scientist. He tweets @curlyjunglejake. The views expressed in this commentary are their own. View more opinion at CNN.
 (CNN)This week, news of a worrisome variant of the coronavirus dubbed Omicron dominated headlines after it was first detected in South Africa.
Many world leaders, including US President Joe Biden, reacted swiftly to the news by announcing a raft of travel restrictions on African countries, even though the variant has already been detected in places like Australia, Hong Kong and Israel. While Omicron has not yet been found in the United States, Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said he "would not be surprised" if it has already made its way in.
At best, travel restrictions can help slow the spread of the variant and buy us time. At worst, they can hamper global communication, transparency and data sharing while discouraging countries from monitoring new variants. But while we wait to learn more about this viral variant, there are resources at our disposal to protect ourselves should Omicron spread to the United States. We should all do our part, which includes getting vaccinated and testing for Covid-19 when recommended while the medical community studies the variant and evaluates whether our vaccines will hold up against it.
Through there is much we don't yet know about Omicron, here are three things we do know:
How the variant was first detected
The Omicron variant was first detected in a sample collected November 9 and reported to WHO on November 24. All Covid-19 samples collected in the Gauteng province of South Africa between November 12 and 20 were determined to be the Omicron variant, suggesting it had already become the dominant strain in that region. The variant has been detected in a number of other nations and continents, but because of great variation in viral sequencing surveillance efforts, undetected Omicron outbreaks may already exist in additional locations.
Omicron has a lot of mutations
The virus' genome has about 50 mutations, with roughly 30 of them found in the spike protein -- the structure the virus uses to get into the cells they attack. (This spike protein is also the basis of most mRNA vaccines, which deliver instructions for our immune systems to recognize and attack this portion of the virus.)
The World Health Organization has reported that "preliminary evidence suggests an increased risk of reinfection with this variant, as compared to other (variants of concern)." Preparing for the worst, vaccine makers Pfizer and BioNTech have already announced they could manufacture a new Omicron-specific vaccine in 100 days if required, subject to regulatory approval. 
The severity and infectiousness are not currently well understood
Mutations can affect both severity (virulence) and infectiousness (transmissibility) of a virus, capable of rendering them either more or less dangerous to the public. Early observations in South Africa suggest Omicron may spread more easily than Delta, although such early estimates are notoriously unreliable.
South African doctor Angelique Coetzee has reported that she has so far observed around two dozen Omicron patients, mostly young men, about half of whom were unvaccinated, presenting with relatively milder symptoms such as severe fatigue. While potentially encouraging, this is a small sampling of all cases, and South Africa has a population that skews much younger than the United States and many other countries, providing less opportunity to assess effects of Omicron on older, higher-risk individuals.
Overall, there has not been enough time for any understanding of the lethality of Omicron to be established. Gaining a better understanding of how Omicron behaves will take months of observations of additional subjects. 
There are now systems in place at the national and international levels that help identify and characterize new variants. In the United States, the SARS-CoV-2 Interagency Group (SIG), jointly established by a number of US health and defense authorities, focuses on monitoring emerging variants and their potential impact on critical SARS-CoV-2 countermeasures, including vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics.
Similarly, the World Health Organization also helps track SARS-CoV-2 variants on an international scale and works with multiple partners, national institutions and expert networks in monitoring and assessing variants that may pose an increased risk to global public health.
But as of now, the limited amount we know about Omicron leaves a lot of room for questions. Will it peter out like Mu or take over like Delta?
While we wait for answers, we need to continue to be vigilant. For all of us, this means getting vaccinated and, if eligible, getting the booster dose, wearing a mask and being mindful of the activities we engage in. If we get sick or are exposed to someone who is sick, getting tested and quarantining if we test positive is critical.
Vaccinating now is now more important than ever. Even if Omicron continues to spread, Delta will be the dominant strain of virus causing Covid-19 heading into winter, according to Fauci.  Vaccination protects against Delta, and may protect against Omicron as well.
At the public health level, we must continue to employ all the strategies to box in the virus: vaccination, testing, sequencing, surveillance, contact tracing and offering support services to those who need to quarantine or isolate. On the medical end, we must continue to develop newer generations of vaccines that can be easily scaled up to meet any variant specific threats. 
The Omicron variant is another reminder of the risk we all face when vaccination levels are low throughout the world. Allowing the virus to spread unchecked gives it more opportunities to mutate without the blanket of protection vaccines offer at the community level. Lagging vaccination rates anywhere are a threat everywhere.
We can't afford to face another Delta-like foe. The toll is too great -- emotionally, physically, economically and financially.

 (CNN)Earlier this month, Austria took a step once unthinkable for a Western democracy: It announced that Covid-19 vaccinations would become compulsory for its entire population. 
Up until then, governments around the world had rejected the idea of a universal coronavirus vaccine mandate, opting instead for incentives and other "nudges" to motivate people to get shots. Even in authoritarian states, like China, it is not mandatory policy. 
Austria's extraordinary move came just days after it introduced a lockdown for the unvaccinated — a restriction that went farther than other European nations in singling out the people who have been driving a worrying surge in hospitalizations.   
The series of decisions leading Austria to this point reflects the desperate position governments find themselves in as they look to protect public health systems and tentative economic recoveries as cases soar across Europe. The continent is once again ground zero for the global pandemic, despite the widespread availability of vaccines.  
It is that irony that has drawn the ire of Europe's leaders, who are growing increasingly frustrated by vaccine skeptics and other pockets of the population still resisting Covid-19 vaccination programs. 

Austria's tough new measures were unveiled before the announcement of the discovery of the Omicron variant late last week, which triggered fears that the winter Covid-19 wave could be more brutal than previously thought. The news of the variant could push more countries to harden their approach, pivoting from voluntary to mandatory measures in a last-ditch effort to get shots in arms.
"We have enough vaccines. Science gave us the possibility, the exit ticket out of this vicious circle of virus waves and lockdown discussions. And simply not enough people are using this possibility and taking this exit ticket, and that's why we're still stuck in this situation," Austrian Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg told CNN last week, explaining his decision to mandate Covid-19 vaccines by February 1. Those failing to adhere to the rule will face an administrative fine, but it's not clear yet how high, or how the policy will be enforced. Nearly one in three people in Austria remain unvaccinated.
"It is a drastic measure. I would have preferred to go another way. But if one year in having the vaccine, of having national campaigns, of having media explaining again and again what this is about, that we have such a high degree of insecurity, of people believing in fake news ... we have a necessity to take this drastic step," Schallenberg added.

Countries elsewhere are starting to consider similarly drastic measures to persuade more people to get shots, despite criticisms that low vaccination rates made them unrealistic and would deprive millions from earning a livelihood.
On Sunday, days after his country's scientists first reported the existence of the Omicron variant, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that authorities were looking into whether to mandate Covid-19 vaccinations — and booster shots — for workers and for entry to some public spaces. Kenya was one of the first African nations to introduce restrictions on the unvaccinated last week.
Scientists are still reviewing data to assess how effective existing vaccines are against the new variant, but Moderna's chief has warned in an interview with The Financial Times that he thinks it will amount to "a material drop." 
Dr. Anthony Fauci, US President Joe Biden's chief medical adviser, has said that he believes existing vaccines should still provide a degree of protection against severe cases. "Vaccination is going to be the solution to this, whether it's the Delta variant or the Omicron variant," Fauci told CNN's Jake Tapper.
The question over whether or not to pull the trigger on mandates, and how to weigh up the risk to civil liberties against a serious threat to overstretched healthcare systems, has caused a lot of hand-wringing across the world — especially in Europe, a proud bastion for liberal democracy. 


But just as lockdowns have become a part of pandemic life, the rapidly emerging view in Europe is that vaccine mandates are not just plausible — they could pay off. Rules in France, Italy and now Austria provide a window into what to expect.
Austria has experienced a surge in vaccinations since the beginning of the November, when the government began to signal more stringent measures for workers. In four weeks, vaccination coverage clicked up about 4 percentage points — more than other Western European Union member over the same time, according to the Our World in Data project at Oxford University.
After the initial lockdown of the unvaccinated on November 14, half a million more people received their first dose, according to the chancellor. That upwards trajectory has continued, though the vast majority of vaccinations are booster shots, Peter Klimek, an associate professor at the Medical University of Vienna and adviser to Austria's health ministry, said. 
"From a modelling perspective, it's clear that if you increase the vaccine uptake, it won't be enough by itself to stop the virus from circulating, but it's a huge step to stop the collapse of the healthcare system," Klimek said. "Will a mandate help? Yes, if we find ways to make it work."
As Austria's vaccine mandate has sent tens of thousands of people onto the streets in protests, many more have gone to vaccination centers. "I gave into the government's blackmail. I wanted to wait, but the government had other plans for me," Jaruslav, who would only give his first name, told CNN as he was getting his first shot at Austria's largest vaccine center in Vienna.

While some minds won't change, others — like Jaruslav — will, albeit begrudgingly. For the price of some protests, some European politicians are beginning to come to the conclusion that pushback is worth it in order to compel a slice of the population that would have otherwise been hard to win over.
In explaining Austria's decision, Schallenberg pointed to the successes of Italy, its southern neighbor, and France, which have introduced vaccine mandates in all but name — requiring health passes as proof of vaccination, a negative test or recent recovery from infection to attend public gatherings, travel or go to work — in conjunction with public health measures, like mask wearing. Both countries have also made vaccination mandatory for health workers — two of five countries to do so in Europe, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. 
France was the first to set the trend towards mandates in Europe, after its vaccination rollout stalled. "France is definitely the poster child for this working," said Thomas Hale, who's been collating countries' policy responses as part of the COVID-19 Government Response Tracker, run by the Blavatnik School of Government at Oxford.  

Hale and his colleagues are in the process of adding data on Covid vaccine mandates to their tracker with the aim of answering the big question: Do they work? Of more than 180 countries that the Blavatnik School of Government tracks, Hale said a few stood out for having effective mandates: France, Israel, China and Brazil. 
Early this year, Israel became a model for beating back Covid with its use of a vaccine passport, the so-called "Green Pass," but experienced a devastating surge in infections fueled by the fast-spreading Delta variant over the summer after it retired the pass system and dropped other restrictions.
In China, where the pandemic began, the government has achieved a high level of vaccination through an array of contentious carrot and stick incentives, requiring vaccines for students and workers, while enforcing sanctions for those who don't get a shot, through social credit rankings.
Since a number of Brazilian cities, including Rio, began introducing divisive vaccine passports this fall, Brazil, once devastated by the virus, has now surpassed the UK as among the most highly vaccinated countries in the world.
"There's an optimist story to be told that, for the vast majority of people, this is not actually that controversial. There's a lot of focus on the resisters, and rightly so. But it's quite a lot of movement in the right direction," Hale said.

Nowhere has that been more apparent than in France, where President Emmanuel Macron announced the health pass, or "pass sanitaire," on July 12, triggering a dramatic spike in vaccination appointments. Doctolib, the main platform for booking jabs in the country, saw 1 million appointments made in 24 hours. 
Thanks in part to its swelling vaccination rate -- along with a massive increase in testing linked to the Covid pass, and the reintroduction of mask mandates in regions badly hit by the Delta variant -- mainland France managed to largely sidestep the fourth wave that swept through Europe over the summer. About 70% in France are now fully vaccinated.
Vittoria Colliza, a Paris-based epidemiologist at Inserm, the French public-health research center, told CNN that the introduction of the pass "was the key to getting out of a stalling situation, where we had reached a saturation point," and proved it was possible to incentivize people previously reluctant to get the vaccine. But now, as European countries with high vaccination rates struggle to contain yet another surge in cases, Colliza said it was clear that additional incentives would be needed to escape the worst as immunity wanes.
A June study out of Israel revealed that while vaccines still offer strong protection against severe Covid-19, their effectiveness in fighting the virus wanes over time, accelerating the need for third booster shots. It has since reinstated its Green Pass, and is mandating a third dose for its renewal.
Macron said recently that a booster dose would be necessary for those aged over 65 to revalidate their health pass from mid-December, in an effort to ensure uptake and avoid the fifth wave.  
Italy followed the path of France in July, with Prime Minister Mario Draghi announcing a similar health pass, requiring it as proof of immunity to access an array of venues and services. Though Italy didn't see the same initial surge in vaccinations as France, the policy has helped to slowly turn the dial. And, last month, Italy went beyond France to introduce what was until recently the toughest measure in Europe: A "Green Pass" requiring all of the nation's workers, both public and private, to be vaccinated, prove they had recovered or test negative for Covid in order to get their paycheck. 
Since the measure was announce in mid-September, Italy's vaccination coverage has crept up about 5 percentage points. Though not a huge increase, experts argue that at this stage in pandemic, every percentage point helps.  
Dr. Roberto Burioni, a leading Italian virologist at San Raffaele University in Milan, said the strict measures of the expanded health pass has not only allowed the country to fully vaccinate around 73% of the population, but also avoid painful restrictions, like the lockdown now enforced in Austria. Burioni also said the pass, which is necessary to access nightlife, had motivated young people in Italy to get jabs.

"What in my opinion was the most remarkable effect is that we experienced a very, very high vaccination rate on the age group from 20 to 30," Burioni said, which he put at about 84%. "These youngsters are very important in the diffusion of the virus. Because, you know, they have a very intense social life. They're one of the reasons Italy is in a better position than other countries."
But he said that even with the tough mandates, and his efforts to fight anti-vaccine disinformation as part of Italy's Covid strategy, there remains a small, loud minority of the population who are dead-set against vaccinations, and seemingly nothing will change their mind. That group, while small, still poses a big problem for Italy in reaching its ultimate goal of vaccinating 90% of the eligible population, Burioni added.
"I can't believe somebody is refusing this after 150,000 deaths in Italy -- everybody here has a relative, a friend who died of Covid. I encounter people in the intensive care unit with Covid who still say that they wouldn't get the shot. They don't regret it, they say 'Oh no, please don't vaccinate me.'"

While the politicization of Covid vaccines, particularly by populist groups in Europe, has made many governments reluctant to enforce mandates on their populations, the risk of harsh lockdowns canceling another chance at a Christmas recovery season has led many to reassess. 
As cases in Germany soar, the country's health minister has warned that by winter's end, "just about everyone in Germany will probably be either vaccinated, recovered or dead." Since Wednesday, a new law has required all workers to provide proof of vaccination, recovery or a negative test — those who don't comply will be barred from entering their office and could go unpaid. And Olaf Scholz, Germany's incoming chancellor, said that mandatory vaccinations would be considered by the new coalition because "vaccination is the way out of this pandemic."
In Greece, where infections are rising, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said Tuesday that Covid-19 vaccinations would be made mandatory for all citizens over the age of 60. The Greek government had recently banned unvaccinated adult citizens from entering cinemas, theaters, museums or gyms — with or without a test. Access to public services, banks and shops without a negative test was already restricted for the unvaccinated. The Czech Republic, which is seeing its highest case counts of the pandemic, is also tightening requirements along similar lines.


The ratcheting of restrictions on the unvaccinated is part of a wider movement toward vaccine mandates globally, Thomas Hale says. "Austria's a very dramatic example. But it's very much part of a bigger trend."
There are counterexamples where mandates' effectiveness have been less clear. In the United States, vaccine rules for federal workers, members of the military and people working in healthcare settings, have gone some way to increase uptake among those groups, but it is hard to say whether they've made a significant impact on the general population, Hale says. The Biden administration has also tried to require private companies employing more than 100 people to be fully vaccinated or undergo regular testing, but the measure is being tied up in the courts.
But as countries aim to use lockdowns more judiciously, or avoid them entirely, Hale believes we'll continue to see more leaders moving toward mandates. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in mid-November that the definition of "fully vaccinated" would have to shift at some point to account for booster shots. And, on Monday, the United Kingdom announced it would offer booster vaccines to all adults — and cut the gap between second and third doses from six months to three — in an effort to slow the spread of Omicron. 
"I think they [mandates] do work. I think they especially motivate people who are not vaccine adverse, but who are kind of vaccine lazy, a little bit hesitant. And in some countries, that's a big chunk of the population," Hale said, pointing again to France.
"But if you're facing people who are really against vaccination, then it's not as clear to me that those measures will remove that barrier."
Eliza Mackintosh wrote and reported from London. Jo Shelley and Salma Abdelaziz in Vienna, Nina Avramova, Stephanie Halasz, Sarah Dean and Chris Liakos in London, and Inke Kappeler in Berlin contributed to this report.
A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.
London (CNN Business)The price of oil has shot up this fall, boosting profits for major producers but hurting the wallets of drivers who need to fill up their tanks. Just a few days back, gas prices in California hit their highest level ever. This week, however, some of the pressure has started to lift.
What's happening: West Texas Intermediate futures, the US benchmark for oil prices, and Brent futures, the global benchmark, are now trading at their lowest levels in six weeks on signals that supply constraints could begin to ease soon.
In the United States, prices fell sharply Wednesday after oil inventories at a key hub in Cushing, Oklahoma rose for the first time in weeks.

But Bjornar Tonhaugen, head of oil markets at the consultancy Rystad Energy, told me that the biggest factor driving prices right now is the expected release of strategic reserves from the United States and China.
According to the White House, US President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping discussed the "importance of taking measures to address global energy supplies" during their virtual summit this week. That sparked chatter about a coordinated move initiated by the White House to put millions of barrels of oil on the market.
Thursday brought some signs that China is taking action. Reuters reported that the country's state reserve bureau said it was working on a release, though the exact details remain murky.
A spokesperson for China's National Food and Strategic Reserves Administration told CNN on Friday that it was "pushing forward with crude oil release-related work at the moment," but declined to comment on whether it was in response to a US request to work together to tackle the supply crunch. 
Based on current price moves, Tonhaugen said, investors are expecting between 20 million and 30 million barrels to come online in the next month. That could be from the United States and China together, or through broader action coordinated by the International Energy Agency.
He emphasized, however, that the release of strategic reserves won't change the overall picture for long.
"[Releasing] strategic reserves is not the same as getting more continuous production of oil online," Tonhaugen said.
But more lasting relief could be coming. The IEA said in a report this week that it expects global oil supplies to rise by 1.5 million barrels per day over November and December as some production in the United States picks up again.
"The world oil market remains tight by all measures, but a reprieve from the price rally could be on the horizon," the Paris-based agency said.
OPEC is also steadily ramping up output, but there are questions about whether supply gains will be enough to meet a surge in demand for fuel.
Watch this space: President Joe Biden, who is taking political heat from the spike in gasoline prices, asked the Federal Trade Commission on Wednesday to "immediately" investigate whether illegal activity by oil and gas companies is contributing to the problem.
The American Petroleum Institute slammed the push and renewed its call for the federal government to encourage domestic oil and gas production even as it tries to fight the climate crisis.
"This is a distraction from the fundamental shift that is taking place and the ill-advised government decisions that are exacerbating this challenging situation," the group said in a statement.
Warren Buffett-backed Paytm stumbles in trading debut
One of the hottest companies to begin trading on India's stock market is getting off to a rough start.
This just in: Paytm's stock launched in Mumbai on Thursday. Shares of the startup went live at $26 apiece, below the offer price. They finished down more than 27%, giving the firm a market value of under $14 billion.
The weak debut reflects analysts' fears about the digital payments company, my CNN Business colleague Diksha Madhok reports. Despite its buzz, it lost hundreds of millions of dollars last year and seems far from ready to turn a profit. It's also up against competition from some of the biggest technology firms in the world.
Its initial public offering still marks a milestone. The digital payments company raised $2.5 billion in its IPO — the largest ever in the country when measured in local currency.
With backing from investors such as Warren Buffett, Masayoshi Son and Alibaba, Paytm is one of India's best funded startups. 
The company took off five years ago when Prime Minister Narendra Modi banned two of the country's biggest currency notes. The move was hugely disruptive for India's economy, but it helped Paytm grow at an explosive rate: The company signed 10 million new users within a month. 
Paytm now has 337 million registered consumers and 22 million merchants. Yet the field is getting crowded. Facebook and Google also want a piece of the huge market and have launched their own mobile payments systems in the country.
The metaverse is bigger than just Facebook
Facebook (FB) (ahem, Meta Platforms) isn't the only company planning to cash in on the metaverse.
The latest: Shares of Nvidia (NVDA), the industry leader in graphics processors and AI chips, are up 9% in premarket trading on Thursday after the company reported record revenue and forecast better-than-expected earnings for its upcoming quarter.
Nvidia recently announced the formal launch of NVIDIA Omniverse, a platform for simulating and designing virtual worlds. The company has said it hopes to tap into the 40 million 3D designers in the global market. 
"This is just the tip of the iceberg of what's to come," said CEO Jensen Huang.
Chipmaker Qualcomm (QCOM) also wants in on the action, telling investors it intends to be "the ticket to the metaverse." Companies ranging from the owner of Playboy to record label Warner Music Group and media giant Disney all discussed the metaverse in earnings calls during the past few weeks, my CNN Business colleague Paul R. La Monica has noted.
Then there's gaming platform Roblox, which lets users generate their own avatars and play games created by other players. Shares have soared almost 160% since they debuted on the New York Stock Exchange earlier this year.
Epic Games CEO Tim Sweeney told CNN in Seoul that the metaverse isn't going to be created by one company. "It will be created by millions of developers each building out their part of it," Sweeney said.
Step back: Facebook made a splash when it changed its corporate name to Meta Platforms as it pivots its focus to augmented reality and virtual worlds. But if its vision of the future pans out, it won't be alone in raking in profits.
Up next
Alibaba (BABA), JD.com (JD), Kohl's (KSS), Macy's (M) and Petco report results before US markets open. Ross Stores (ROST) and Williams-Sonoma (WSM) follow after the close.
Also today: Initial US jobless claims for last week post at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Coming tomorrow: Foot Locker (FL) earnings wrap up retail's big week.

Jill Filipovic is a journalist based in New York and author of the book "OK Boomer, Let's Talk: How My Generation Got Left Behind." Follow her on Twitter. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely her own. View more opinion articles on CNN.
 (CNN)An increasingly ridiculous Republican Party has offered political observers no shortage of absurd stories, but this is a new low: This week, Republican Rep. Paul Gosar tweeted out an animé video featuring Gosar, a 62-year-old dentist from Wyoming, as a flying, sword-wielding hero who appears to kill his colleague, Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, and attacks President Joe Biden. 
 
Let us first stipulate that this video is extremely badly done. While Gosar's spokesperson whined that "The left doesn't get meme culture" when Democrats objected to a congressman tweeting out an animated video of him killing his colleague, the truth is that Gosar's animé film was less a reflection of a sophisticated understanding of meme culture and more analogous to the point evoked by Steve Buscemi's "How do you do, fellow kids?" meme  -- that is, it was pretty sad and extremely lame, a prime example of what the kids might call "cringe." 
 
It was also wildly inappropriate. If just about any other person in the US tweeted out a bizarro fantasy cartoon of them attacking and killing a coworker, they would definitely have a big HR problem on their hands, likely face termination from their jobs and possibly be getting a visit from the cops. 
 
If a high school student tweeted out a similar video targeting the student body president and the coolest girl in school, you can bet school administrators would immediately treat him as a potential violent threat (and if his video was as thoroughly embarrassing as the one Gosar shared, he'd also face widespread mockery from his peers). 
 
But since the person who tweeted the video wasn't an average employee or a high schooler and is instead a Republican member of Congress, apparently he will face no consequences.
 
The keyword there is Republican member of Congress. Democrats (rightly) apologize when they mess up, as Rep. Ilhan Omar did, for example, when she tweeted "It's all about the Benjamins baby" in reference to previous attacks on her over her criticisms of Israel. That, she recognized after the fact, was an anti-Semitic trope, even if she says she hadn't intended it that way. By contrast, Gosar has hosted fundraising events with White nationalists and Holocaust deniers. His extremist ally in the GOP, Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, has compared Covid restrictions to Nazism and shared a whole slew of anti-Semitic conspiracy theories. 

While some Republicans expressed moderate distaste for Greene's comments, she remains in Congress. So does Gosar. Greene did lose her committee assignments (because of House Democrats, with 11 Republicans joining), but the GOP also ousted Liz Cheney from leadership, a woman whose only offense was not offering unequivocal Dear-Leader-esque support of former President Donald Trump. 
 
When liberal comedian Kathy Griffin shared a photo of herself holding a fake severed head of then-President Donald Trump, the outrage was intense and sustained, and she paid for that transgression with a huge portion of her career. A CNN spokesperson called her act "disgusting and offensive"; she apologized, but the network terminated her contract anyway. Griffin's "joke" was condemned on the left and right alike. 
 
Now that a conservative with real power -- a politician in elected office, not a comedian mouthing off -- has engaged in the similarly egregious behavior of fantasizing about a violent attack on a president (and added in a congresswoman), it's crickets from the Republican Party, and defensiveness and deflection from Gosar's team. Gosar's digital director told The Washington Post that "Everyone needs to relax." 
 
It's awfully hard to relax, though, when your coworker makes a video fantasizing about your death. Ocasio-Cortez tweeted that Gosar had "shared a fantasy video of him killing me" and "he'll face no consequences bc @GOPLeader cheers him on with excuses." 
 
And Gosar's video isn't just a threat to Biden and Ocasio-Cortez. It's a threat against American democracy and the stability of the nation. 
 
It's one thing to virulently disagree over values and policy, as Republicans and Democrats long have. It's another to position the opposition party as an enemy so hostile that the threat of physical violence up to and including the point of murder is funny. That's a world where the answer to political disagreement isn't elections, or reliance on long-standing democratic institutions -- but rather where something more sinister can seem justified.
 
Unfortunately, the country has already seen the result of the growing brand of Trumpist and right-wing extremism Gosar's so-called meme represents. Less than a year ago, a thwarted attempt at an insurrection in the Capitol, spurred on by former President Donald Trump has his Republican Party, left scores injured and five dead. 
 
In the aftermath, the GOP hasn't just deflected accountability; they have actively stood in the way of efforts to understand what happened and identify those involved. Trump's legal team has tried to stop the committee investigating the attacks from accessing the records of what he did on January 6; members of Trump's administration and election team have refused to respond to subpoenas, and the GOP refused to support the creation of an investigatory committee in the first place. 
 
To add absurdity to injury, the Republican Party has made an art -- showcased most recently in elections in Virginia, New Jersey and elsewhere -- of accusing Democrats of extremism. But while Republicans are blaming Democrats for school administrators -- some of whom can be ham-handed or overzealous in how they teach America's long history of racism -- members of their own party are promoting racist conspiracy theories and tweeting out videos of them appearing to kill a colleague. 
 
The Republican Party has a serious problem with extremism. Instead of cleaning house, they're doubling down in defense -- finger-pointing at Democrats, refusing to take any responsibility for their actions, and frothing up the most dangerous fringes of their base. This is apparently what they think is the easiest route to power. 
 
It's also a fast route to division, violence and the dissolution of a democratic society.

 (CNN)President Joe Biden, reconvening a summit of North American leaders at the White House on Thursday, sought cross-border agreement on migration, Covid-19 and economic integration, even as his guests voiced concerns over what they say are protectionist trade policies left over from Biden's predecessor.
"We can meet all of the challenges if we just take the time to speak with one another," Biden said as he met in the East Room with the leaders of Canada and Mexico. "As leaders, we share an innate understanding that our diversity is an enormous strength."
The main sticking points between the men center on Biden's proposed tax credits for American-made electric vehicles, which are included in the major social and climate spending plan currently making its way through Congress. Canada has argued the proposed credits could violate a new North American trade agreement.
The White House holds a different view, and the topic was expected to arise during the lengthy talks between the leaders at Thursday's gathering.
It's the first such summit -- which have come to be known as the "Three Amigos" -- since 2016, reviving a forum shunned by former President Donald Trump. It came a few weeks after Biden reopened US land borders to fully vaccinated travelers, ending a nearly 20-month closure that had caused tensions with both nations.
Before he met jointly with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, Biden sat down with each leader individually to discuss bilateral issues. They did not hold a joint press conference, unlike the previous eight North American Leaders summits held since 2005.
Welcoming Trudeau to the Oval Office, Biden offered praise for what he called "one of the easiest relationships you can have as an American president, and one of the best."
With López Obrador, Biden hailed the two nations' "different and emerging relationship, that is borne out of mutual respect."
"Mr. President," Biden went on, "we no longer use language like 'Our friends from the South.' You are an equal, we're equal countries, and that's what I like about you."
All three leaders entered the talks hoping for a more united front on economic and security matters as global competition from China and other regions scales up. Supply chain disruptions have heightened the nations' desire to create more resilient manufacturing at home.
The leaders were planning to announce a new group focused on supply chain resiliency, pledge to reduce emissions like methane and reaffirm support for labor protections included in the US-Mexico-Canada trade deal signed during the Trump administration.
The leaders also hope to rebuild relationships that had gone dormant in the previous administration, including a high-level security dialogue.
Yet as Biden works to promote the landmark infrastructure law he signed this week, some of the provisions included in a larger climate and social spending plan are causing consternation among the United States' neighbors.
Specifically, proposed electric vehicle tax credits included in the "Build Back Better" plan would favor US manufacturers, causing concerns about protectionist policies. Trudeau and Mexican officials have voiced concern about the proposed tax credits.
Pressed by reporters, Biden said alongside Trudeau the two leaders were "going to talk about" tax incentives for electric vehicles, but pointed out the provision "hasn't even passed the House yet."
During a daily White House press briefing, the President's press secretary, Jen Psaki, said the proposed electric vehicle tax credit "is an opportunity to help consumers in this country."
Migration was another central topic of discussion, though ahead of time Biden's advisers said the focus would be on developing a regional approach to the issue and not specifically about the US southern border.
One official said Biden hoped to "lock arms" with Canada and Mexico to address displacement issues they acknowledge will not wane anytime soon. They hope to address root causes like lack of job opportunities and the effects of climate change.
Other issues have caused some tension among neighbors, including Enbridge's Line 5 oil pipeline, which the state of Michigan wants to shut down, and Mexico's overhaul of its electricity industry.
But the leaders still put on a cooperative face as the "Three Amigos" format was restored, including an announcement on Covid-19 vaccine donations. Earlier this year, the United States lent doses to both countries, and on Thursday they "returned" them by donating millions of vaccines to countries in the Western Hemisphere.
They also agreed to build on efforts to compile regional pandemic preparedness plans and discuss the best ways to distribute the Covid-19 vaccine in Latin America.
This story has been updated with additional developments on Thursday.

EDINBURGH, Scotland (CNN)Meeting his foreign counterparts behind closed doors in Rome this weekend, President Joe Biden repeatedly recited for them a key figure: $555 billion.
That is the massive sum of money set aside to combat climate change in the sweeping social spending plan he's been trying to get through Congress. In conference rooms and in hallways, Biden wielded the number -- by far the largest amount ever for climate -- to prove to his fellow leaders that America is finally ready to tackle the world's existential problem.
He'd once hoped the money would be approved by the time he arrived in Europe last week for a pair of high-profile international summits -- timing that might also boost Democrat Terry McAuliffe's lagging campaign for governor in Virginia.
He tried to force the matter in the hours before he departed. As he was jetting over the Atlantic toward Italy, however, it became clear the gambit wouldn't work. Making his return flight home Tuesday, the future of his plan was no more certain than when he'd arrived.
By the time he landed, McAuliffe had lost. 
Biden's second foreign trip has been shadowed at both ends by halting efforts to pass a sweeping domestic agenda. After arriving in Europe unable to secure a vote, he left with fresh doubts about one key senator's position.
In between, Biden was able to move world leaders on a host of issues he's struggled to gain traction on back home. He secured an agreement that would see corporations pay more in taxes after unsuccessfully pushing for a corporate tax hike in Congress. 
He pushed world leaders to up their climate ambitions, including on methane and international coal financing, even though his own climate plan was scaled back after opposition from one senator with deep ties to the coal industry.
Even Biden's chatty meeting with Pope Francis at the Vatican was an entirely warmer affair than his frosty standoff with conservative American bishops, who are mulling a plan that would deny him communion because he supports abortion rights for women. Emerging afterward, Biden said Francis called him a "good Catholic," and the next day he received the holy sacrament at a church in Rome.
Feeling invigorated during in-person meetings he says cannot be replicated over a screen, Biden found in Europe a level of cooperation that's become elusive at home.
"Two world leaders came up to me today and said, 'Thank you for your leadership. You're making a big difference here,'" he said during a concluding news conference in Scotland before returning to Washington.
"They listened. Everyone sought me out," he said earlier in the trip. "They wanted to know what our views were. And we helped lead what happened here."
"Not Trump-y" 
Biden has long savored international summitry for its ample opportunities for backslapping. Though he skipped some lighter-hearted photo-ops, including a coin toss at the iconic Trevi Fountain in Rome, and appeared weary as he listened to other leaders deliver their climate statements, he was mostly in his element. Over the course of the six-day trip, the White House listed pull-aside meetings with more than a dozen of his counterparts — and one with Prince Charles.
"It never ceases to amaze me, when you're looking at someone straight in the eye, when you're trying to get something done. They know me; I know them," Biden said as he departed the G20.
Two leaders he wasn't able to stare down were China's Xi Jinping or Russia's Vladimir Putin, whose absences from either gathering only seemed to cement the impression they have little interest in global cooperation. Biden said the no-shows "disappointed" him.
"We showed up. We showed and by showing up, we've had a profound impact on the way I think the rest of the world is looking at the United States in this leadership role," he said Tuesday. "I think it's been a big mistake, quite frankly, for China, with respect to China not showing up."
"To me, it just is a gigantic issue," he went on. "And they've walked away."
Instead of a high-profile summit with Xi -- once envisioned by his aides for the G20 -- Biden's most watched meeting was with the leader of a longtime ally, French President Emmanuel Macron. Biden smoothed over a rift involving nuclear-powered submarines by admitting his administration had been "clumsy" and suggesting he'd been misinformed on some details.
The forthrightness caught some of his own aides by surprise, though most agreed it was a necessary step toward repairing an indispensable relationship.
"Our reaction to this was not Trump-y," a senior administration official said afterward. "It was, you know, an effort to basically say, 'OK, let's just set this on the right course.'"
For Biden, acting "not Trump-y" abroad is about more than just style. On this trip, he also reversed Trump-era steel and aluminum tariffs and conferred with European leaders about the possibility of reviving the Iran nuclear deal, which Trump cratered by withdrawing US support.
Biden's challenge this week was convincing fellow leaders that he and the United States remain committed to various causes, like climate change, that went mostly ignored during the previous four years. He went as far as apologizing for former President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, a move he claimed, "put us behind the 8 ball."
It was a sentiment that sat well with other leaders, even as they looked for Biden to make his actions on climate change, the Iran nuclear deal and global security durable enough to withstand a Republican president — potentially Trump himself.
"I think our allies believe that we have to lock in progress as much as possible while there is a president who is a deeply committed transatlanticist in office," a senior administration official said halfway through the trip.
Manchin tosses a monkey wrench into Biden's pitch 
Locking in progress has proved difficult.
Just as Biden was just arriving for a leaders' dinner at the Kelvingrove Gallery in Glasgow on Monday, centrist Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia stepped to a podium in the US Capitol to declare himself undecided on the spend-and-tax framework the White House had laid out days earlier. 
Democrats largely shrugged off Manchin's concerns and are pressing forward with plans for a vote anyway, potentially even this week. Even progressives have indicated they are ready.
Still, Manchin's comments came at an inopportune time for the President. He spent the previous five days citing the plan in public and private as evidence of US credibility on combating climate change.
Sitting in the art gallery among fellow leaders, Biden heard a pointed -- and timely -- message from the summit's official host.
"I, for one, hope that this conference will be one of those rare occasions where everyone will have the chance to rise above the politics of the moment, and achieve true statesmanship," Queen Elizabeth said in a video message.
White House officials were quick to shrug off Manchin's appearance, and swiftly released a statement saying they were confident the plan would gain Manchin's support.
Biden said as he left Scotland that he was confident the West Virginian would come around: "I believe that Joe will be there," he said.
Some of his advisers said it was time for the process to move ahead.
"Sen. Manchin has been part of the discussion for a long time," said Gina McCarthy, the national climate adviser who was accompanying the President in Scotland. "The President has been negotiating with both him and others, and it's time to move this forward. I think Sen. Manchin is going to do what he needs to do, and I'm pretty sure that the President knows we're going to have the votes we need to get this passed."
Biden did not speak with Manchin in the 24 hours after the senator's press conference, though White House officials were in touch with him. 
Biden's aides insisted ahead of the trip he would have ample time to lobby lawmakers over the phone while abroad, but while he was here officials said his principal focus was on his foreign policy meetings.
On his flight home, though, politics were looming. 
"I'm going to be landing at one o'clock in the morning East Coast time," he said when questioned about a tighter-than-expected race for governor in Virginia. "That's probably about the time we'll be hearing what the final results are."

 (CNN)President Joe Biden said Wednesday the guilty verdicts in the trial for the killing of Ahmaud Arbery "reflect our justice system doing its job," but added, "That alone is not enough."
"Nothing can bring Mr. Arbery back to his family and to his community, but the verdict ensures that those who committed this horrible crime will be punished," Biden said in a statement. 
"While the guilty verdicts reflect our justice system doing its job, that alone is not enough. Instead, we must recommit ourselves to building a future of unity and shared strength, where no one fears violence because of the color of their skin," he continued. "My administration will continue to do the hard work to ensure that equal justice under law is not just a phrase emblazoned in stone above the Supreme Court, but a reality for all Americans."
Vice President Kamala Harris similarly said in a statement Wednesday evening that the verdicts "send an important message, but the fact remains that we still have work to do."
"The defense counsel chose to set a tone that cast the attendance of ministers at the trial as intimidation and dehumanized a young Black man with racist tropes. The jury arrived at its verdicts despite these tactics," Harris said. 
Their comments came after a jury found three White men charged in the killing of Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man, guilty on multiple murder counts, as well as other charges. The verdict, delivered by nine White women, two White men and one Black man, followed more than 11 hours of deliberation spanning two days.
The defendants in the case -- Travis McMichael, his father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan Jr. -- had been arrested last year after the shooting of Arbery in the Satilla Shores neighborhood outside Brunswick, Georgia, on February 23, 2020.
Arbery had been on a jog -- a common pastime, according to those who knew him -- when the McMichaels grabbed their guns and pursued him.
The men said they believed Arbery had committed a crime. Evidence introduced in the trial showed the men had chased Arbery through the streets as he repeatedly tried to elude them. The McMichaels, who were armed, were in one vehicle, while Bryan, who joined while the chase was underway, followed in his own truck, assisting in and recording the chase. Arbery was unarmed and on foot.
Video of the killing showed Travis McMichael exit his truck and confront Arbery before fatally shooting him as the two tussled.
"The video is clear: Ahmaud Arbery was killed in cold blood," Biden had tweeted in May 2020. "My heart goes out to his family, who deserve justice and deserve it now. It is time for a swift, full, and transparent investigation into his murder."
In the lead-up to the verdicts, the White House had declined to weigh in on the trial. White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters on Monday, "I'm not going to speak to, obviously, an ongoing trial."
"I will note, though, that the President has spoken many times to this horrific event in the past.  And it's not just about this case, in his view; we have a lot of work to do as a nation," she added. "And it's just a reminder of why the President has prioritized rooting out systemic racism."
This story has been updated with additional information Wednesday.
CORRECTION: A previous version of this story misstated the gender makeup of the jury. Nine White women, two White men and one Black man served on the panel.
CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin, Devon M. Sayers, Alta Spells and Travis Caldwell contributed to this report. 
Paris (CNN)When President Barack Obama's decision to scrap a planned missile defense system in the fall of 2009 left a pair of European allies feeling jilted, Vice President Joe Biden embarked on a three-day tour to coax relations back to health. 
Twelve years later, Biden -- now the US President responsible for vexing another European ally -- is entrusting his vice president with a similar mission.
Arriving in Paris on Tuesday, Vice President Kamala Harris is setting off on a five-day effort to revitalize the French-American relationship less than two months after the longest American allies were blindsided by Biden's decision to help Australia develop nuclear submarines -- sinking France's own submarine deal with Australia in the process. The visit will also be Harris' first to Europe in her new role, a key diplomatic test for the vice president and an opportunity to burnish her foreign policy credentials after a rocky first foreign trip earlier this year. 
Harris' trip to Paris comes on the heels of Biden's meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron on the sidelines of the G-20 conference in Rome, during which Biden acknowledged "clumsy" handling of the submarine affair. But while French officials have been heartened by the US rhetoric in recent weeks -- including on Macron's priority of bolstering European defenses -- French officials say they are still looking for concrete US actions to make amends. 
"We're past the freefall phase and we're in the phase where we both have agreed to rebuild, but we're not quite clear yet what that looks like," said Barry Pavel, director of the Atlantic Council's Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security who served as a senior director for defense policy at the National Security Council. "The President has already done step one ... but this is step two." 
Nearly every aspect of Harris' visit is designed to showcase the enduring nature of the US-French alliance and the Biden administration's commitment to making amends. A visit to the Suresnes American Cemetery and Armistice Day commemoration will highlight the sacrifices of US and French troops during both world wars. Harris' appearance at the Paris Peace Forum -- an often-overlooked global summit launched by Macron in 2018 -- will make her the most senior US official to attend and appears to be a gesture of goodwill to the French President. And at five days, the length of Harris' trip also signals a seriousness of purpose. 
"For Kamala Harris, this is concluding the crisis," said Gerard Araud, a former French ambassador to Washington. "It's concluding the reconciliation by this gesture of appreciation." 
Senior administration officials previewing the trip said Harris will look to strengthen the Franco-American partnership in "concrete ways," but exactly how remains unclear. 
When Biden headed to Poland and the Czech Republic in the fall of 2009 to massage those allies' concerns about the scrapped plans for a new missile defense system based in their countries, the then-vice president arrived with a concrete way to assuage the US's allies: a scaled-back missile defense system, which both countries bought into by the time he had returned to Washington. 
A similarly clear-cut outcome will be harder to come by for Harris.
While Biden has affirmed "the importance of a stronger and more capable European defense" -- a central priority for Macron -- in recent joint statements, there's no indication that concrete actions to match that rhetoric are imminent. 
Still, the visit presents a key test and opportunity for Harris on the world stage. Beyond a bilateral meeting with Macron at the Elysée Palace on Wednesday, the Vice President will also meet with other key European officials during a conference on Libya on Friday attended by Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. 
But Harris' trip will also be closely watched by her supporters and detractors alike, after her rocky handling of an interview during her first foreign trip to Mexico and Guatemala City in June overshadowed that trip.
That trip left White House officials perplexed as Harris struggled to answer a question that she should have anticipated about why she had not yet visited the US southern border. 
Harris subsequently traveled to Singapore and Vietnam in August in the wake of the US' haphazard withdrawal from Afghanistan, where she faced questions about the withdrawal and sought to solidify the US commitment to bolstering it's influence in Asia.

A version of this story appeared in CNN's Meanwhile in China newsletter, a three-times-a-week update exploring what you need to know about the country's rise and how it impacts the world. Sign up here.
Hong Kong (CNN)Chinese leader Xi Jinping has further cemented his power at a key meeting of the Communist Party elite, overseeing the passing of a landmark resolution that paves the way for him to secure a third term in office.
Senior officials on Thursday approved a resolution on the party's "major achievements and historic experiences" since its founding 100 years ago, placing Xi on the same pedestal as the nation's founding father Mao Zedong and reformist leader Deng Xiaoping, who unleashed an economic boom that turned China into the world's second-largest economy.
And with this elevated stature and undisputed rule within the authoritarian, one-party state now established, Xi is preparing to sit down with United States President Joe Biden in a virtual meeting Monday -- the first between the two leaders since Biden entered the White House in January.
By consolidating his position at home and attempting to build bridges with Biden, Xi is hoping to smooth a path to next year's 20th Party Congress, during which he is expected to claim a third term -- extending his time in office by at least another five years.
The scheduled talks with Biden come amid intensifying competition and heightened tensions between the two superpowers across a number of fronts, as well as China's deteriorating relations with much of the developed world and a growing list of its neighbors.

On Thursday, Xi warned Asia-Pacific nations against a return to Cold War-era tensions, in a veiled reference to the Biden administration's efforts to rally allies and partners in the region to confront Beijing's rising influence.
"The Asia-Pacific region cannot and should not relapse into the confrontation and division of the Cold War era," Xi told the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in a recorded video. "Attempts to draw ideological lines or form small circles on geopolitical grounds are bound to fail," he said.
Xi has attempted to build domestic legitimacy around a vision of "the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation," which vows to restore China to its ancient glories and rightful place on the world stage. 
Since the pandemic, the Chinese leader has doubled down on a narrative that "the East is rising and the West is falling," touting an "unprecedented window of opportunity" for China to catch up with -- if not surpass -- the West in national strength.
And the historic resolution adopted at the party's plenum this week has anointed him as the only leader supposedly capable of steering China to achieve that ambition.
Under Xi, the meeting's communique says, China has "made historic achievements and undergone historic transformations," solving tough problems and allegedly accomplishing grand things that it says were long on the agenda of his predecessors but could never get done. 
The communique did not address any of the complex challenges faced by Xi's administration, from a looming demographic crisis and slowing economy to Beijing's plummeting international image over its harsh crackdowns on Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong, military posturing toward the self-governing island of Taiwan, and an increasingly assertive foreign policy. 
Instead, it heaped glowing praise on the perceived progress made under Xi's leadership, from what it characterized as the elimination of poverty and containment of Covid-19, to reshaping ideology, modernizing the military and lifting China's global influence. 

In the communique, Xi is portrayed as an epoch-making leader alongside Mao and Deng, the only other two Chinese leaders who had put forward such resolutions. Under Mao, Deng and now Xi, the Chinese nation has "ushered in a great leap from standing up and getting rich to becoming strong," it said.
"He wants to really highlight his own contribution to the development of the party, that also will seal his legitimate rule over China in the foreseeable future," said Victor Shih, an expert on elite Chinese politics at the University of California, San Diego. "Then of course, no one would challenge his power within the party." 
The communique, however, also left out any mention of the party's past mistakes, including a deadly famine and a decade of political and social turmoil unleashed by Mao -- disasters partly caused by the fervent cult of personality surrounding him.
After decades of collective leadership following Mao's death, Xi has returned, at least in part, to the one-man rule of the Mao era.
"Now we are back to the strongman politics," said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a professor of political science at Hong Kong Baptist University.
"The danger, of course, (is to rely) on one person to make decisions, but also rely on his health, on his own character to decide about the future of a nation of 1.4 billion people," he said.
And when there's only one person in power, there's just one person to blame when things go wrong.

Scott Jennings, a CNN contributor and Republican campaign adviser, is a former special assistant to President George W. Bush and a former campaign adviser to Sen. Mitch McConnell. He is a partner at RunSwitch Public Relations in Louisville, Kentucky. Follow him on Twitter @ScottJenningsKY. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN.
 (CNN)Glenn Youngkin's win in Virginia's gubernatorial race -- a blowout in a state won just a year ago by President Joe Biden by 10 points -- proves that there's a market for an old fashioned, simple tactic: find a platform of issues that is responsive to voter concerns and run on it!
 
Education. Crime. The economy. Reforming state government. All of this mattered to Virginia voters and Youngkin did what Donald Trump failed to do in the 2020 election: construct a platform to meet those concerns.
 
Make America Boring Again by running on issues and refusing to chase the personal grievance of the day.
 
Democrats failed this test miserably. Terry McAuliffe, President Joe Biden, former President Barack Obama and every other Democratic luminary showed up to campaign for McAuliffe and make the same pitch: Youngkin is a White supremacist Trump clone and so is anyone who votes for him.
 
It was a lie from the start and voters simply weren't buying. There was demand among the electorate—even among some moderate Democrats—for a candidacy based on issues rather than personality. Youngkin gave folks exactly what they wanted, while McAuliffe and company gave them junk food leftover from last year's election buffet.
 
Republicans now have a blueprint for running in targeted races across the country, especially in states with large suburbs such as Arizona, Georgia and North Carolina, where key races will determine control of Congress in 2022. Issues like education, crime, and quality of life helped Youngkin far outkick his coverage in Northern Virginia's deep-blue suburbs. It turns out that when candidates are responsive to what voters care about, people tend to like it.
 
In 2020, we found that the Republican brand — below Trump — was in pretty solid shape. The GOP far outperformed pundit expectations in the US House, leaving it just short of a majority and well-positioned to reclaim it in 2022. Democrats failed to win Senate races in Maine and North Carolina. And in statehouses across the country, Republicans swamped Democrats in gubernatorial and state legislative races. 
 
In Virginia, Youngkin's strategy was more like the non-Trump Republican success stories of 2020. He focused on his own brand and on issues that were top of mind for local voters, instead of on a Trump-centric or Trump-style campaign that relied on rotating grievances and personal pique.
 
Youngkin firmly rejected the January 6 Capitol riot and didn't pre-judge the integrity of the election, although Trump played footsie with that message in some of his personal statements in the weeks leading up to Election Day. And it didn't drive any Republicans away from his campaign, apparently, contrary to what Trump argued a few weeks ago when he said Republicans wouldn't vote unless the GOP made election security its top (and only?) issue. Rural and suburban voters alike turned out for Youngkin and the entire Virginia ticket, which included an African American female lieutenant governor, a first for that office.
 
This is how Republicans win: continue to take advantage of the collapse of the Democratic Party in rural America. Recover the party's mojo in the suburbs with bread-and-butter issues. And continue to recruit great candidates who look and sound like America, which is basically full of people who believe in America's goodness versus what they see as a Democratic Party intent on running down what the country stands for.
 
Score one for a good guy, Youngkin, who struck a blow for a return to issues-based politics. The politics of Virginia —a blue state— demanded that he thread the needle and he did it. He kept Trump out and the issues in, and now the GOP has a big win to show for it.


 (CNN)Worn out by what they see as entrenched dysfunction and lack of focus, key West Wing aides have largely thrown up their hands at Vice President Kamala Harris and her staff -- deciding there simply isn't time to deal with them right now, especially at a moment when President Joe Biden faces quickly multiplying legislative and political concerns. 
The exasperation runs both ways. Interviews with nearly three dozen former and current Harris aides, administration officials, Democratic operatives, donors and outside advisers -- who spoke extensively to CNN -- reveal a complex reality inside the White House. Many in the vice president's circle fume that she's not being adequately prepared or positioned, and instead is being sidelined. The vice president herself has told several confidants she feels constrained in what she's able to do politically. And those around her remain wary of even hinting at future political ambitions, with Biden's team highly attuned to signs of disloyalty, particularly from the vice president. 
She's a heartbeat away from the presidency now. She could be just a year away from launching a presidential campaign of her own, given doubts throughout the political world that Biden will actually go through with a reelection bid in 2024, something he's pledged to do publicly and privately. Or she'll be a critical validator in three years for a President trying to get the country to reelect him to serve until he's 86. 
Few of the insiders who spoke with CNN think she's being well-prepared for whichever role it will be. Harris is struggling with a rocky relationship with some parts of the White House, while long-time supporters feel abandoned and see no coherent public sense of what she's done or been trying to do as vice president. Being the first woman, and first woman of color, in national elected office is historic but has also come with outsized scrutiny and no forgiveness for even small errors, as she'll often point out. 
Defenders and people who care for Harris are getting frantic. When they're annoyed, some pass around a recent Onion story mocking her lack of more substantive work, one with the headline, "White House Urges Kamala Harris To Sit At Computer All Day In Case Emails Come Through." When they're depressed, they bat down the Aaron Sorkin-style rumor that Biden might try to replace her by nominating her to a Supreme Court vacancy. That chatter has already reached top levels of the Biden orbit, according to one person who's heard it. 
She's perceived to be in such a weak position that top Democrats in and outside of Washington have begun to speculate privately, asking each other why the White House has allowed her to become so hobbled in the public consciousness, at least as they see it.  
"She's very honored and very proud to be vice president of the United States. Her job as the No. 2 is to be helpful and supportive to the President and to take on work that he asks her to take on," said Eleni Kounalakis, the lieutenant governor of California and a longtime friend. Kounalakis spoke with the vice president last Monday morning before Harris departed for a diplomatic mission to France. 
"It is natural that those of us who know her know how much more helpful she can be than she is currently being asked to be," Kounalakis said. "That's where the frustration is coming from."  
An incumbent vice president should be a shoo-in the next time the party's presidential nomination is open. But guessing who might launch a theoretical primary challenge to Harris has become an ongoing insider parlor game. Other politicians with their own presidential ambitions have started privately acknowledging that they are trying to figure out how to quietly lay the groundwork to run if and when Harris falters, as they think she might. 
The reality is more complex and looks different to people more familiar with how any White House actually works. Harris is the first vice president in decades to come into office with less Washington experience than the president, and finding her footing was always going to be hard. Presidents and vice presidents and their staffs often clash. Barack Obama's West Wing tended to be dismissive of Biden's staffers (a number of whom are now with him in the West Wing), and Biden himself had a number of stumbles early in that job. Republicans and right-wing media turned Harris into a political target from the moment she was picked for the ticket. And implicit racism and sexism have been constant.  
It's a conundrum unique to her. People are expecting their historic vice president to make history every day when in fact she's trying to carry the duties of a secondary role. Harris is being judged not just by how she's doing in the traditional duties of a vice president, said Minyon Moore, a longtime Democratic operative who has become Harris' most important outside adviser. "It's a little more subliminal, but it's real," Moore said. "'What is her playbook in history?'"  
Harris has emerged as a "quiet force" in the administration, Moore said, and she focuses attention on different issues sometimes just by her very presence in the room.  
Moore said Harris' approach is to be constantly asking, "Should we be doing more on an issue? Are we communicating with the people whose lives are impacted? Are we missing any key constituency groups?" 
But, with many sources speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the situation more frankly, they all tell roughly the same story: Harris' staff has repeatedly failed her and left her exposed, and family members have often had an informal say within her office. Even some who have been asked for advice lament Harris' overly cautious tendencies and staff problems, which have been a feature of every office she's held, from San Francisco district attorney to US Senate. 
'A central component' sometimes forgotten 
Biden aimed to model his relationship with Harris on his own vice presidency and directed aides early in his presidency to employ her in a similar fashion. He arranged weekly lunches, just as he'd held with Obama, and invited Harris to join him for his morning classified intelligence briefing. Harris, meanwhile, threw herself into proving her commitment to the President and the administration, using his relationship with Obama as her guide.  
Even then, some White House aides questioned whether Biden's experience as vice president would easily translate to someone with far different qualifications and skills -- and to a much different moment. 
After Harris became known in the first few months for often standing by Biden's side in the frame as he made big speeches, even after she'd introduced him herself, the West Wing appears to have overcorrected so she has been with the President noticeably less. 
Not just in public. A week and a half ago, as Biden and his aides and multiple outside allies rattled through calls all day trying to lock down wavering lawmakers ahead of the House infrastructure vote, Harris spent the afternoon touring a NASA space flight center in suburban Maryland. "We weren't going to cancel her schedule just because of the House's foolishness," a Harris aide explained.  
That night, Harris was part of the small group Biden invited upstairs to the White House residence for the war room making the last hours of calls. The next morning, celebrating the bill's passage, Biden singled her out, saying, "A lot of this has to do with this lady right here, the vice president." 
But that's not exactly how things had played out. While she had attended some meetings Biden hosted with key lawmakers, there were many more that she didn't attend -- to the point that it was noteworthy that she made an unscheduled drop-by one session in the final stretch. Harris had only been in Washington four years, and to the White House just one time before being sworn in as vice president. Missing out on those main meetings deprived her of an important aspect of presidential apprenticeship from a self-styled master of how to actually get deals through Congress.  
Aides to the vice president point to 150 "engagements" with members of the House and Senate since March, accounting for every conversation she had with lawmakers about the subject of infrastructure. They call this "quiet Hill diplomacy," and it includes inviting lawmakers to join her when she's visiting their home states or holding events in Washington, many of which have touted actual elements of the infrastructure bill beyond the price tag. Harris has helped to detect concerns from outside the Beltway and has attempted to give political cover to members worried about losing their seats after voting for the legislation. 
"It's never just a roundtable. There's always a larger strategic purpose," Harris spokeswoman Symone Sanders said.  
One of those roundtables was in late September, when Harris invited Rep. Nanette Barragán, a California Democrat, to co-host a discussion with Latina business leaders in the vice president's ceremonial office. The congresswoman was hesitant to support all of the compromises on progressive initiatives in the infrastructure bill. The West Wing asked Harris to stress to Barragán how much her vote was needed, and she did. 
Several aides to the vice president highlighted this as a key example of her under-the-radar influence. Barragán ultimately voted yes -- but a person who discussed the decision with the congresswoman said that, while she appreciated hearing from the vice president, what really swayed her was the Congressional Progressive Caucus deciding to support the bill. 
Harris' aides cite how much of what's in the infrastructure bill connects back to legislation she worked on while in the Senate, including accessible broadband, wildfire defense, water clean-up and clean energy school buses. And in 30 events over seven months touting the bill in local media markets, they believe she's played an integral role in selling the administration's efforts.  
Perhaps, one Harris aide offered, the issue is that some in the West Wing don't have constant knowledge of what the vice president's team is doing. "We feel like a central component of the overall effort," another said.  
A leader 'not being put in positions to lead' 
Harris has also complained to confidants about not being a greater part of the President's approach to the Afghanistan withdrawal -- despite telling CNN at the time she was the last one in the room when he made the decision -- leaving her without more to draw on when she defended him publicly. 
When Biden picked Harris as his running mate, he was essentially anointing her as the future of the Democratic Party. Now many of those close to her feel like he's shirking his political duties to promote her, and essentially setting her up to fail. Her fans are panicked, watching her poll numbers sink even lower than Biden's, worrying that even the base Democratic vote is starting to give up on her.   
"Kamala Harris is a leader but is not being put in positions to lead. That doesn't make sense. We need to be thinking long term, and we need to be doing what's best for the party," said a top donor to Biden and other Democrats, imagining how to make the case directly to the President. "You should be putting her in positions to succeed, as opposed to putting weights on her. If you did give her the ability to step up and help her lead, it would strengthen you and strengthen the party." 
On the one issue Harris actually asked to be assigned -- voting rights -- progress has been slow in part because Biden is focused on passing his own domestic agenda, even though Harris has said privately the filibuster must be scaled back if real progress can be achieved. Biden has said as much publicly now too. 
And though Harris has told confidants that she has been enjoying a good working dynamic directly with Biden, those who work for them describe their relationship in terms of settling into an exhausted stalemate.  
Suspicion has sprouted out of the bitterness. Last month, White House aides leapt to the defense of Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, who was being hammered with outrage by Fox News host Tucker Carlson and like-minded online pundits for taking paternity leave after the adoption of his twins in September. Harris loyalists tell CNN they see in that yet another example of an unfair standard at play, wondering why she didn't get similar cover any of the times she's been attacked by the right.   
"It's hard to miss the specific energy that the White House brings to defend a White man, knowing that Kamala Harris has spent almost a year taking a lot of the hits that the West Wing didn't want to take themselves," said a former Harris aide, reflecting conversations last month among several former aides and current allies. 
Buttigieg, of course, isn't just a former 2020 Democratic primary rival; to many party insiders and suspicious Harris supporters, he is a likely challenger for the next open Democratic presidential nomination, whether that comes in 2024 or 2028.  
White House aides say they weren't pitting one against the other. The difference in the responses, those aides think, was that Buttigieg hadn't done anything wrong by taking time to be with his new children. Buttigieg's leave was a conveniently timed reminder that Biden is pushing for a national paid leave law to be part of his social safety net package. 
That's different from when Harris has created problems for herself, White House aides believe, such as when she didn't push back on a student who accused Israel of "ethnic genocide." West Wing aides weren't going to clean up after that. But even when Harris has faced her own manufactured outrage from the right, like when an innocuous tweet about enjoying the long Memorial Day weekend was said to be her insulting dead veterans, White House aides also remained virtually silent. 
New tensions keep piling on old tensions 
The list of complaints between the West Wing and the vice president's office keeps growing, even stemming from Harris' first assignment from Biden this spring. The situation has become a back and forth of irritations -- some real, some perceived. 
Harris' team was mad Biden had assigned her to handle diplomatic relations with the Northern Triangle nations, in hopes of addressing the root causes of migration to the US, but gave her no role on the southern border itself. That become the most visible crisis in the early days of Biden's presidency as unaccompanied minors overwhelmed federal government resources. It seemed like an all-around politically losing assignment even though Biden had seen it as a sign of respect because it was the same job Obama had given him as vice president.  
As CNN has previously reported, Harris herself has said she didn't want to be assigned to manage the border, aware that it was a no-win political situation that would only sandbag her in the future. But Biden's team was annoyed that Harris fumbled answers about the border, including when she gave an awkward, laughing response about not visiting it during a spring interview with NBC's Lester Holt. 
As some around Harris see it, the White House failed to come to her defense. That was especially galling since they had given her the unpleasant task on her first foreign trip of carrying the administration's harsh "do not come" policy, according to one source familiar with the workings of the office.  
A number of West Wing aides were mad when, a few weeks later, she made a sudden trip to the border after her staff gave only a few days warning to the White House, particularly after White House aides had taken time to knock down the idea that she should go as half-baked Republican spin. But this was in part a misunderstanding: White House chief of staff Ron Klain and a small circle of West Wing aides had known about the trip far in advance but had been careful not to spread the word to avoid leaks. 
West Wing makes clear they aren't coming to the rescue 
Biden aides have repeatedly told Harris aides that they'd love to have her doing more and asked the vice president's office to come up with plans for how to get her involved, according to people familiar with the conversations. Though the staffs are on multiple calls per week, West Wing aides are often left wondering why there's not more follow through. 
Aware of her stumbles and the ticking political clock, Harris' chief of staff, Tina Flournoy, went to Klain over the summer: They were drowning; they needed more help. 
Klain is known as a Harris defender in the West Wing and does a weekly one-on-one meeting with her in her West Wing office to help her strategize. As a former chief of staff to two vice presidents, Klain knows the dynamics well. Talking with Flournoy about the staff, Klain said the vice president's office budget was separate, and advised her to think creatively about drawing on other resources in the office and reassigning staff.  
Klain, in a statement provided to CNN, downplayed any criticism of the vice president, saying Harris and her team "are off to the fastest and strongest start of any Vice President I have seen." Citing a range of work from stressing Covid-19 vaccine equity to meeting with many foreign leaders, Klain added, "Anyone who has the honor of working closely with the Vice President, knows how her talents and determination have made a big difference in this Administration." 
Harris' aides point out that Biden was never subjected to the kind of attacks she regularly endures -- or to a toxic social media culture. In one recent example, a Republican super PAC tweeted a video inventing a claim that Harris spoke with a "fake French accent" at a stop during her trip to Paris, which was then picked up in some news outlets.  
There have been some changes in the vice president's office to address those concerns. Two new hires were made in September to help with long-term planning and communications. That has helped improve relations with the West Wing, while Flournoy was pointed to the Democratic National Committee for backup.   
The DNC hired a contract consultant in part to help with the Harris portfolio. That has not been going well either, according to people familiar, with Harris' staff usually only reaching out to ask for buffering tweets after problems or negative stories arise, rather than being more proactive. Meanwhile, Flournoy has been turned down by several others who've been unwilling to work in the office, and several people currently on staff have started to reach out to contacts to say they're looking to leave, according to sources who've gotten the calls.  
Paying a price for loyalty to Biden 
The vice president's office is dismissive of many of these concerns. Sanders, in a statement provided to CNN, pointed to the successes of the recent trip to Paris -- a priority mission on which Biden dispatched Harris to smooth over bruised diplomatic relations.  
"It is unfortunate that after a productive trip to France in which we reaffirmed our relationship with America's oldest ally and demonstrated U.S. leadership on the world stage, and following passage of a historic, bipartisan infrastructure bill that will create jobs and strengthen our communities, some in the media are focused on gossip - not on the results that the President and the Vice President have delivered." 
But many friends and supporters of Harris, as well as some on staff and in the kitchen cabinet of experienced Democratic advisers, feel like she's caught in a sort of political mess-up merry-go-round. They blame reporters they see as chasing incessantly negative stories and playing into undeniable structural issues of race and gender.  
The vice president is often on guard for those double standards herself, but the concern is high enough that an informal network of outside advisers, many of whom are veterans of Hillary Clinton's campaigns, has come together to both point out inadvertent bias in Harris coverage and attempt to better amplify the work Harris is doing. 
"She's not only the first woman vice president, but the first woman of color. This is a moment that has to succeed, otherwise we are fearful that this could set us back as women for a long time," said one outside adviser.  
Top aides say privately they have come to regret that Harris didn't ask for more well-defined assignments coming into the administration, which would have allowed her to distinguish herself, but the vice president herself has been reluctant to make demands for any at this point, feeling that would look disloyal to Biden.   
"They're consistently sending her out there on losing issues in the wrong situations for her skill set," said a former high-level Harris aide.  
Then there's the frequent complaint of a lack of follow through from the vice president's office, such as on the southern border. 
When Fernando García, executive director of Border Network for Human Rights, met with Harris during her visit to El Paso, Texas, this summer, he was optimistic about her potential influence on immigration policy. But months later, García says she "disappeared."  
"We haven't heard any substantive messaging push for better immigration policies," he told CNN. "We haven't seen her leadership."  
Harris loyalists themselves worry that she'll pay the price for her own loyalty to the President and her willingness to take on what they view as thankless assignments.  
A sole focus on the President 
Biden's aides have made clear that they are focused on promoting and protecting him, especially since it's his approval rating that will likely define the 2022 midterms and his promised run for reelection in 2024.  
Harris' team has argued over whether she is going too far in subsuming herself to Biden -- a back and forth that dates to the transition, when Harris was pushed to turn over the email list from her campaign and super PAC to the DNC.  
This was a good idea, some argued, because it would show Harris being a team player and help raise tens of millions for the DNC. Others pushed back, saying turning over the list would mean losing control of and access to it, which could be debilitating if Harris ends up facing a primary fight for the presidential nomination, as many expect she would.  
Flournoy ended the dispute in favor of turning it over. They were all on the same team, she said on a phone call with lawyers, explaining the decision.  
But months later, that email list still hasn't arrived at the DNC. Harris aides have been told that the transfer has been held up by a complaint about the Biden campaign lodged with the Federal Election Commission.  
As the vice president's chief of staff, Harris loyalist believe, Flournoy should be prioritizing Harris' interests over those of the White House.   
"If someone is accusing me of being loyal to Joe Biden, I'll take that. If someone is accusing me of being disloyal to Kamala Harris, I won't take that," Flournoy said. "She doesn't believe there is a conflict between being loyal to her and being loyal to Joe Biden." 
Several Biden campaign aides spoke of putting "a blanket" around Harris after she was picked as the running mate last year, and advised against bringing on staff from her presidential campaign, though the final decisions around hires and structure were left at her discretion. That's left her with just a handful of current aides who knew her before she was vice president-elect, and they don't know her well. Feeding dissension internally, many suspect each other of putting their own career interests ahead of hers, or of performing to try to build their relationships with her on the fly.   
Former aides have tried to offer advice to the current crew, urging them to get the vice president away from scripted events behind podiums. They say she often goes down her own rabbit holes preparing for those events, when more off-the-cuff interactions would better play to her strengths.  
Harris' closest aides frustrate even her 
In and around Harris' circle, they speculate that there must be someone getting in her way. 
Some think it's the President himself leaving her out in the cold, prioritizing his own agenda. Some blame specific West Wing aides whom they feel sure are out to undercut her. Some fear the vice president is, as she has often done in her political life, leaning heavily on her sister Maya Harris, brother-in-law Tony West and niece Meena Harris, whom they sense exerting influence over everything from staff hires to political decisions -- a not uncommon situation historically among presidents and vice presidents. 
Several people familiar with the operations of the vice president's office say that after a spike in involvement earlier in the year, the family has been pushed further out again recently. Few expect that to remain the case, especially with the vice president feeling isolated and unsure of whom she can trust on her staff. 
Harris herself has complained about the lack of support, internally and externally. After appearing at a fundraising event in Virginia for former Gov. Terry McAuliffe in September ahead of the gubernatorial election, she asked why she'd been put in a situation that ran counter to the good modeling of Covid-19 protocols she has been trying to stick to, as she looked out at a sizable crowd gathered in a mini-mansion backyard, largely mask-less, dipping into an Indian food buffet.  
She's not the only one who's noticed the operation falling short. When she appeared at an event in the Bronx in October to promote the administration's Build Back Better agenda, longtime supporters grumbled that not only were several politicians and donors left off the invitation list, but that she hasn't even been making calls to check in and do the basic political maintenance that many have come to expect. Instead of feeling connected to Harris in her historic first year in office, they feel cut off.    
'The administration ought to be using her more' 
The version of Harris that could be out in public -- the one reminiscent of her more charismatic moments on the campaign trail -- was on stage at Carnegie Hall last month. Harris was in New York for the 30th anniversary of Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action Network civil rights group.  
Unlike the reined in, ultra-bland approach she has often taken in public, Harris let loose, especially on the fight for voting rights. She ripped Republican Govs. Greg Abbott of Texas and Ron DeSantis of Florida for "undoing the legacy of our heroes." New state voting laws in those and others, she charged, were "an extension of the Big Lie," saying, "Well, here's the truth: There was not rampant fraud. The people voted and the results were certified state after state and reaffirmed by court after court. The Big Lie is not anything but a lie." 
She was energetic and engaging, and the crowd was on its feet applauding. As she presented Sharpton with a birthday cake and gently danced to the music playing over the speakers as he prepared to cut it, she seemed -- as she rarely does at public events these days -- happy and relaxed.  
The next afternoon, Sharpton told CNN he'd noticed that the event was one of her "better public appearances." Harris felt at home, he reasoned, with a crowd committed to voting rights and criminal justice reform, which are two of the main issues that have defined her career. "That brought her in a different headspace." 
Sharpton said he'd like to see more of that. He and other allies view next year's midterm campaigns as the perfect opportunity for her to shine and maybe recapture some of her standing with the base -- if she's allowed to, and able to. 
"The administration ought to be using her more as the face in the voting rights fight. Being Black and a woman, she literally is the physical manifestation of why we need to protect the right to vote," Sharpton said.  
Sharpton said he assumed Harris had spent the year trying to follow the White House's more constrained lead on how to approach all issues, given that Biden has largely avoided politics and donors -- or even much of an aggressive public case for his agenda -- himself.  
"The tone of the administration has been reach out, bipartisanship. She, as vice president, does not want to get out ahead of the administration," Sharpton said. "She did what vice presidents do."  
But now, he added, "The whole tone of the administration has to change."  
Donna Brazile, one of several prominent Black women who urged Biden advisers to put Harris on the ticket, agreed that it's time to retool after the rough first year. Brazile wants to see the vice president on the road almost constantly -- "keep Air Force 2 gassed up and ready to go," she joked -- whether talking about replacing lead pipes in Flint, Michigan, or expanding broadband in rural America or focusing on improving schools in the suburbs.  
"She is a wonderful messenger. But it has to be clear, concise and consistent," said Brazile, still a frequent outside adviser to Harris. "Don't make her a creature of the Beltway. Let her out." 
CLARIFICATION: This story has been updated to more clearly reflect how the vice president's budget is controlled.
Priscilla Alvarez contributed to this story. 
 (CNN)The Biden administration is considering sending some of the Afghan evacuees at a US military base in Kosovo back to Afghanistan if they cannot clear the intense vetting process to come to the United States, according to three US officials familiar with the matter.
A return to Afghanistan is only one option on the table -- and comes with complicated legal questions -- but it is being studied as US officials have yet to develop an overall plan for how to handle the challenge of where to resettle Afghans if they do not clear the US security clearance process. 
The rushed and chaotic evacuation from Afghanistan in the final weeks of August sent the US government scrambling to establish sites across Europe and the Middle East to process tens of thousands of evacuees. About 70,000 have come to the United States, others have been cleared to go to partner third countries, and those whose cases need more extensive vetting are being transferred to Camp Bondsteel in eastern Kosovo.
The number of evacuees at the base is small -- roughly 200 individuals, including family members, according to a source familiar, and the administration has an agreement with the government of Kosovo to house them there for up to a year. 
Many evacuees who were sent to Bondsteel to be processed have been cleared and moved on to the US, sources say; a senior administration official told CNN last week that nobody has been deemed "ultimately unsuitable for entry to the United States yet."
However, there is concern among some US officials and lawmakers that if any evacuees are ultimately not cleared to come to the US, there are few suitable options for them, and that they could end up waiting on the US base long-term.
Meanwhile, sources familiar with the situation told CNN that there is a sense of trepidation among the Afghan community members at the base, many of whom don't know why they have been sent there or how long they will be there and worry they will be stigmatized as "terrorists" for having been processed there.
The senior administration official said that the kind of security flags that have led people to be transferred to Bondsteel from other transit locations in Europe and the Middle East are generally not those "that can be resolved within hours or even within days." The official noted that certain types of vetting can be more complicated and can involve getting FBI or other interviewers involved for questioning about the information the US has come across.
"That can be a more time-consuming process than ... just ruling out someone based on fingerprints or facial photographs," the official said. "That's the kind of thing where the sort of longer process that's happening at Bondsteel can be useful." 
National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne said that "all Afghans hoping to begin new lives in America must first pass our security screening and vetting process and receive necessary vaccinations before they are permitted to enter the United States."
"The fact that some people have been flagged by our counterterrorism, intelligence or law enforcement professionals for additional screening shows our system is working," she continued.
State Department 'confident' they can be resettled
State Department spokesperson Ned Price said the US government is "confident that these Afghan evacuees will be able to be resettled in the United States or in third countries as appropriate."
The senior administration official said they are "eyes wide open that there is at least a distinct possibility that there will be some further reduced subset that will require work to relocate in a way that is secure and humane and appropriate for them."
The US has not sent anyone back to Afghanistan, but the official said they "would leave all such possibilities on the table, which includes the fact that you might have evacuees for whom that is their preferred destination if the United States is not an option." 
That option is mired in human rights concerns and legal questions, as international law prohibits the forced return of refugees and the forced return of people who would be tortured. 
There are two circumstances in which they could be legally sent back. 
The first would be involuntary deportation, which is not a human rights violation if the Afghans' claim that they have been persecuted and tortured does not hold up. The second would be if they have been fully informed of the situation -- which would include an update on what the Taliban have agreed to -- and consent to going back. 
Uncertain future
Human rights advocates say there are reasons to be skeptical of any commitments the Taliban make. 
"There's a huge grain of salt with any assurances that the Taliban would give," said Bill Frelick said, a director of the refugee and migrant division of Human Rights Watch, pointing to their historical and recent track record. "I don't know that their assurances could be believed or trusted to the point where you would actually send somebody back."
There are also concerns that the Afghans who are not cleared could be stuck on the base long-term because no other country will take them in.

"That's a major concern," said Frelick. 
Sources told CNN that for the Afghans at the base, there are questions and concerns about being there and what is in store for their future.
"Their worries circle around the fact that their future is uncertain and they do not know where they are going to be with their families," Labinot Maliqi, an imam in Kosovo has made regular visits to the US military base, explained to CNN.
Another source noted that the evacuees "just want to start their lives but they don't have any certainty."
"Particularly for those who are waiting for their spouses to be cleared or for family members to be cleared, they just feel like they're in limbo," they said.

 (CNN)New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy has become the first Democratic governor in more than four decades to win reelection in the Garden State, CNN projects Wednesday, narrowly surviving a closer-than-expected race that dragged well past Election Day.
Murphy's victory over Republican nominee Jack Ciattarelli, albeit slim, defied the state's trend of voting in the party out of the White House in its off-year gubernatorial contests. Virginia -- the only other with odd-year gubernatorial elections -- held to that historical pattern on Tuesday, electing Republican Glenn Youngkin in a resounding blow to Democrats who had made recent gains in the state. But like Virginia, the results in New Jersey -- another state that President Joe Biden carried by double digits in 2020 -- are raising alarms for Democrats who will be fighting to hold onto the suburbs in next year's midterm elections.
Biden defeated Donald Trump by nearly 16 points in the Garden State. Polling in the gubernatorial race had suggested the results could be narrower, but as Tuesday night progressed it became clear that Murphy had dramatically underperformed the President, despite having more positive approval ratings in the state than Biden.  
Like Democrats did in Virginia, New Jersey Democrats and the Murphy campaign consistently sought to tie the Republican nominee to Trump, who remains deeply unpopular in the state. But those sentiments, some Democrats fretted, might have been undercut by Biden's sinking statewide approval ratings. (He was 6 points underwater in a Monmouth University poll before the election.)
Republicans in New Jersey also followed a similar playbook as in Virginia, with Ciattarelli -- a businessman and former state lawmaker -- keeping Trump at arm's length and instead hammering Murphy over taxes and what he argued were the dire effects of the Democrat's pandemic response on businesses. 
Murphy's narrow victory may be seen as a verdict on his and other Democratic leaders' commitments to mask and vaccine mandates, which the governor has championed in a state that has suffered about 28,000 Covid-19 deaths. 
Before the race was called, a Murphy adviser told CNN that, while it is too early to diagnose in detail the dip in Democratic enthusiasm compared to his 2017 election, robust turnout in areas that opposed some of the governor's stricter measures might have complicated his path.
"You saw astronomical turnout in places like Ocean (County) where people were up in arms on masks and vaccines," the adviser said. "What you see is that people who are upset about vaccines and masks were more likely to vote on that than the people who were happy with his progress."
The final Monmouth University survey of the race had shown Murphy with leads ranging from 8 to 14 points, depending on different models of who came out to vote. Those figures represented a modest narrowing of the race, in which taxes -- an issue that Ciattarelli led on -- were listed as the top issue. But Murphy's advantage on the question of who voters trust more to handle the pandemic was significantly higher, 45% to 26%, a gap that stayed mostly consistent since the summer. The Democrat also enjoyed a sizable lead on a question that roiled the Virginia race -- education and schools -- leading Ciattarelli by 15 points.
But the Monmouth survey also picked up on an enthusiasm gap that may have hurt Murphy, with 38% of self-identified Republicans saying they were more enthusiastic than usual to vote this election compared to 24% of self-identified Democrats.
Murphy was saved, in the end, by the overwhelming advantage registered Democrats enjoy over registered Republicans -- more than a million in New Jersey, though voters there have shown a willingness to support moderate GOP candidates, like two-term former Govs. Christie Todd Whitman and, before Murphy's 2017 election, Chris Christie.
Murphy aides remained confident throughout the campaign, and on election night, that the governor's popularity would carry him to a second term. His approval ratings had consistently outpaced the President's -- 52% compared to Biden's 43% in the Monmouth poll.
"We're going to get reelected -- or not -- on our own weight here," a Murphy adviser told CNN before the polls closed. Still, the governor kept Biden close, welcoming him to the campaign trail and staying in contact as late as the eve of the vote, when the President -- in the middle of a foreign trip -- called and had a conversation with the governor, according to a source familiar with the discussion. 
Murphy, a former Goldman Sachs executive and ambassador to Germany who previously served as the Democratic National Committee's finance chair, also stumped alongside a who's who of national Democratic heavyweights. Biden, former President Barack Obama and independent Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont all headlined events for him to try to drive out base Democratic voters.
Obama, speaking in Newark last month, zeroed in on Ciattarelli for having previously addressed a "Stop the Steal" rally, then later claiming he was unaware of the event's focus. "Apparently Phil's opponent says, well, he didn't know it was a rally to overturn the results of the last election. Brother, come on," Obama said. "When you are standing in front of a sign that says 'Stop the Steal,' and there's a guy in the crowd waving a Confederate flag, you know this isn't a neighborhood barbecue."
Ciattarelli's camp, in response, pointed to his past statements affirming that Biden won the election -- remarks he was attacked over by other Republicans during the gubernatorial primary.
Ciattarelli sought to downplay Trump-fueled conspiracy theories over election fraud -- at least as it applied to his own prospects.
"Don't let anybody stay home because they think we can't win or because it's rigged," Ciattarelli said at an event last week. "It's not rigged here in New Jersey. We can win this race."
Ciattarelli did not name Trump, who did not appear on the trail in New Jersey, but the remark underscored the difficult balance Republican candidates have to strike in states Biden won to get Trump diehards to the polls without alienating suburban swing voters turned off by the former President's behavior and rhetoric. Youngkin's victory in Virginia and Ciattarelli's narrow loss in New Jersey may have helped lay a blueprint for GOP downballot candidates next year.
At their second debate, in mid-October, a moderator pressed Ciattarelli over his view of Trump and whether he would accept the former President's support and campaign alongside him. The Republican nominee, who has been critical of Trump but backed him last year, suggested he had no plans to call in the former President.
"I go out there and campaign on my own," Ciattarelli responded. "I'll win my own election."

 (CNN)China is rapidly expanding its nuclear arsenal and may have 1,000 nuclear warheads by the end of the decade as it aims to surpass US global influence by the middle of the 21st century, according to a major Pentagon report released on Wednesday.
The estimate, based on the rapid modernization of China's nuclear strike options and its construction of missile silos, marks a dramatic increase from the projection in last year's China Military Power report, which estimated that China would double their stockpile of 200 warheads within a decade.
The report comes amid heightened tensions over the issue of Taiwan and was published hours after the most senior US general, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley issued a stark warning about China's military progress stating it amounts to "one of the largest shifts in global geostrategic power that the world has witnessed."
A senior defense official briefing reporters on the report adopted a similar stance. 
"The nuclear expansion that the [People's Republic of China] is undertaking is certainly very concerning to us," the official said. "It's one thing to observe what they're doing, but they haven't really explained why they're doing it."
The official said the buildup raises serious doubts about the intent behind their nuclear stockpile.
"They're moving in a direction that substantially exceeds where they've been before in terms of numbers and capabilities," the official said. Though China still maintains a no first-use policy when it comes to nuclear weapons, the official said China has suggested "there are circumstances under which that wouldn't apply."
China has also focused on a "lean and effective nuclear force," but their current buildup is greater than the US anticipated "and well beyond where they've been historically." The investment in its nuclear force has allowed China to establish a "nascent" nuclear triad of air-launched ballistic missiles, as well as surface and sea-launched missiles, similar to the United States' own triad.
The US currently has 3,750 nuclear warheads in its stockpile, according to the latest data from the State Department, dwarfing the size of China's nuclear stockpile.
The Federation of American Scientists (FAS) published a report this week about the rapid building of three suspected silo fields in western China. The silo fields are still years away from becoming operational, wrote the authors of the FAS report, Matt Korda and Hans M. Kristensen, but they could eventually be capable of launching long-range nuclear missiles.
Modernization provides 'a range of different options' on Taiwan
The Pentagon report, officially called Military and Security Developments Involving the People's Republic of China 2021, also focuses on Beijing's goals for future development and modernization of its armed forces. Crucially, if China meets its interim modernization goal for 2027, it could provide Beijing with "a range of different options" regarding Taiwan, from a blockade of the island to a potential amphibious invasion of either Taiwan itself or one of the smaller outlying islands. 
At the same time, China also aims to deter foreign intervention in what Beijing sees as a domestic political issue.  
"Obviously, they're looking at the United States or other parties they think might intervene on Taiwan's behalf," the official said. Beyond 2027, China is looking to complete modernization of its military by 2035 and become a world class military by 2049, the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the People's Republic of China (PRC). That would allow it to "displace US alliances and security partnerships in the Indo-Pacific region," the report said.
The report, which summarizes Chinese military developments during 2020, does not describe China's recent hypersonic missile test over the summer. On Wednesday at the Aspen Security Forum, where he was interviewed by NBC's Lester Holt, Milley said hypersonic technology is just one area where China is making significant advances. 
Asked about the recent test of a hypersonic weapon, Milley said it was just one part of the broader picture with regard to China's rapidly advancing military capability, which he characterized as a "fundamental change" in warfare that is already reshaping elements of international order.
The report does note that China fielded the DF-17 last year, a medium-range ballistic missile capable of launching a hypersonic glide vehicle. 
China has denied it has tested hypersonic weapons.
Last week, the second most senior US general said that the pace at which China's military is developing capabilities is "stunning" while US development suffers from "brutal" bureaucracy. The outgoing Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General John Hyten, told reporters at a Defense Writers Group roundtable that "the pace they're moving and the trajectory they're on will surpass Russia and the United States if we don't do something to change it. It will happen. So I think we have to do something."
The Pentagon has repeatedly referred to China as the "pacing challenge" for the US, but President Joe Biden stressed Tuesday that competition does not make conflict inevitable.
At the closing press conference of the COP26 climate summit, Biden said, "There's no reason there need to be conflict." Of his upcoming virtual summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping, Biden said, "I've also indicated to him, so I'm not reluctant to say it publicly, that we expect him to play by the rules of the road."
This year's report adds a new section on China's chemical and biological research, raising concerns about the possible dual-use applications of the country's biological activities. But it does not dive into the origins or spread of coronavirus.  Instead, it notes that the Covid-19 pandemic was a driving force behind the China's foreign policy, as it sought to deflect any blame for the outbreak while using foreign assistance to build regional influence.
CNN's Zachary Cohen, Kylie Atwood and Jennifer Hansler contributed to this report.
 (CNN)Vice President Kamala Harris will pursue US efforts to strengthen a recently mended French-American relationship during a trip to Paris next week, where she will also attend a pair of international conferences.
Harris will sit down for a bilateral meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron at the Élysée Palace next Wednesday before delivering remarks at the Macron-hosted Paris Peace Forum and participating in a multilateral conference on Libya. 
Harris' trip comes less than two months after France temporarily recalled its ambassador to the US to protest a US nuclear submarine deal with Australia, which sank a separate French contract to build conventional submarines for Australia. President Joe Biden last week sat down with Macron on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Rome and acknowledged that the US had been "clumsy" in its handling of the matter. 
"The key message for this meeting is the importance of this relationship and the fact that US-French partnership matters to the world," a senior administration official said of the Harris-Macron meeting. 
Harris will be the most senior American official to attend the Paris Peace Forum since it was launched in 2018, though senior administration officials declined to say whether her attendance was part of an effort to mend the US-French rift. 
The senior administration official said the Biden administration is "forward-looking" in its relationship with France and that Harris will look to strengthen French-American cooperation "in concrete ways," though the official declined to say specifically how Harris would seek to improve the relationship. 
The official said Harris and Macron plan to have a "wide-ranging discussion across a range of issues to include the bilateral relationship, European security, the Indo-Pacific, global health, space and a number of other subjects." 
A second senior official said Harris' remarks at the Paris Peace Forum on November 11 -- which will focus this year on global health and post-Covid recovery --  will address "big, converging global crises" with a focus on "the challenge of rising inequality and the need for leaders around the world to join together and take bold action." 
Harris will join Macron and other world leaders for a dinner following the forum. 
She is set to arrive in Paris on Tuesday and return to the US the following Saturday. 
Officials said Harris will tour the Institut Pasteur, a biomedical research institute, after her arrival and meet with French and American scientists working on Covid-19 and pandemic research. 
Harris will visit the Suresnes American Cemetery, just outside of Paris, on the eve of Veterans Day and participate in an Armistice Day ceremony the following day, visits intended to demonstrate "the years that France and the United States have stood together, our shared values and our commitment to continue doing the right things together around the world," the first senior administration official said. 
On November 12, Harris will participate in an international conference on Libya alongside 20 heads of state and government, including Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. 
"The vice president is attending to show US support for the Libyan people as they work to reestablish their sovereignty and establish lasting peace," the second senior administration official said. "We want to show our support for the Libyan people as they move towards national elections and as they focus on the importance of the withdrawal of foreign forces and mercenaries and fighters."  
The official said Harris will also express "deep concern for human rights and the situation of migrants and refugees." 

 (CNN Business)The US Commerce Department on Wednesday blacklisted Israeli firms NSO Group and Candiru, accusing the companies of providing spyware to foreign governments that "used these tools to maliciously target" journalists, embassy workers and activists. 
Commerce officials added the Israeli firms to its so-called "entity list," effectively banning the companies from buying software components from US vendors without a license.
Also added to the list were Russian firm Positive Technologies and Singaporean firm Computer Security Initiative Consultancy. Commerce accused these two firms of trafficking "in cyber tools used to gain unauthorized access to information systems."
Taken together, it is one of the biggest steps yet by the Biden administration to curb the sale of hacking tools that analysts say have been used in human rights abuses around the world. 
"Today's action is a part of the Biden-Harris Administration's efforts to put human rights at the center of US foreign policy, including by working to stem the proliferation of digital tools used for repression," the Commerce Department said in a statement.
NSO Group slammed the Commerce announcement. In a statement, the firm said it is "dismayed by the decision given that our technologies support US national security interests and policies by preventing terrorism and crime, and thus we will advocate for this decision to be reversed."
"We look forward to presenting the full information regarding how we have the world's most rigorous compliance and human rights programs that are based [on] the American values we deeply share," according to the statement, "which already resulted in multiple terminations of contacts [sic] with government agencies that misused our products."
Computer Security Initiative Consultancy did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Candiru could not be reached for comment. 
The Treasury Department in April sanctioned Positive Technologies, accusing the firm of providing support for Russia's FSB intelligence agency. The firm has denied any wrongdoing. In a statement Thursday, Positive Technologies dismissed the Commerce and Treasury departments' actions as geopolitically motivated, and said the Treasury sanctions had done little to hurt the firm's business.
"We firmly believe that geopolitics should not stand in the way of the society's technological development, and will never stop doing what we do best: delivering cybersecurity on a global scale," the company said.
Cybersecurity analysts and human rights activists have long accused NSO Group, in particular, of selling invasive and easy-to-use mobile hacking software to repressive governments. NSO Group's Pegasus spyware is said to have been used to spy on a journalist and activist in Morocco and the widow of a slain Mexican journalist, among other targets, according to security researchers. (NSO Group has said it only sells its software to authorized users for law enforcement and counterterrorism missions.)
US government officials have been concerned by the expansion of the market for hacking tools and the ability of foreign governments to quickly develop their own cyber capabilities using American expertise. In September, for example, the Justice Department announced charges against three former US intelligence and military operatives for allegedly helping build a hacking program for the United Arab Emirates government.
"The US Department of Commerce's designation is a very positive first step to bringing some public accountability and order to this otherwise poorly regulated marketplace," said Ron Deibert, head of the University of Toronto's Citizen Lab, a research team that has documented alleged abuse of Pegasus. 
Natalia Krapiva, tech legal counsel at nonprofit Access Now, said other governments could follow the US in blacklisting spyware vendors.
The United States is "saying these companies are in fact acting in violation not only of universal human rights, but also US national security," Krapiva told CNN. "US blacklisting them likely means that other democratic powers will have to respond in a similar way and we strongly encourage them to." 

Beijing (CNN)Chinese President Xi Jinping told leaders of the 10-country Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) at a summit on Monday that Beijing would not "bully" its smaller regional neighbors, amid rising tension over the South China Sea.
Beijing's territorial claims over the sea clash with those of several Southeast Asian nations and have raised alarm from Washington to Tokyo.
But Xi said China would never seek hegemony nor take advantage of its size to coerce smaller countries, and would work with ASEAN to eliminate "interference."
"China was, is, and will always be a good neighbor, good friend, and good partner of ASEAN," Chinese state media quoted Xi as saying.
China's assertion of sovereignty over the South China Sea has set it against ASEAN members Vietnam and the Philippines, while Brunei, Taiwan and Malaysia also lay claim to parts.
The Philippines on Thursday condemned the actions of three Chinese coast guard vessels that it said blocked and used water cannon on resupply boats headed towards a Philippine-occupied atoll in the sea.
The United States on Friday called the Chinese actions "dangerous, provocative, and unjustified," and warned that an armed attack on Philippine vessels would invoke US mutual defense commitments.
Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte told the summit hosted by Xi that he "abhors" the altercation and said the rule of law was the only way out of the dispute. He referred to a 2016 international arbitration ruling which found China's maritime claim to the sea had no legal basis.
"This does not speak well of the relations between our nations," said Duterte, who will leave office next year and has been criticized in the past for failing to condemn China's conduct in the disputed waters.
ASEAN groups Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
Myanmar no show
Xi told the summit that China and ASEAN had "cast off the gloom of the Cold War" -- when the region was wracked by superpower competition and conflicts such as the Vietnam War -- and had jointly maintained regional stability.
China frequently criticizes the United States for "Cold War thinking" when Washington engages its regional allies to push back against Beijing's growing military and economic influence.
US President Joe Biden joined ASEAN leaders for a virtual summit in October and pledged greater engagement with the region.
The summit was held without a representative from Myanmar, Malaysia's Foreign Minister Saifuddin Abdullah said on Monday. The reason for the non-attendance was not immediately clear, and a spokesperson for Myanmar's military government did not answer calls seeking comment.
ASEAN sidelined Myanmar junta leader Min Aung Hlaing, who has led a bloody crackdown on dissent since seizing power on February 1, from virtual summits last month over his failure to make inroads in implementing an agreed peace plan, in an unprecedented exclusion for the bloc.
Myanmar refused to send junior representation and blamed ASEAN for departing from its non-interference principle and caving to Western pressure.
China lobbied for Min to attend the summit, according to diplomatic sources.

A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.
London (CNN Business)For about 20 months, central banks have funneled an unprecedented amount of cash into the financial system, aiming to limit the worst effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy. Now, with an eye on inflation, they're changing course — with big ramifications for stocks and bonds.
What's happening: The US Federal Reserve said Wednesday that it will begin to reduce asset purchases, a key part of its stimulus efforts, by $15 billion each month. The program is set to wrap up by the middle of 2022.
It's not alone. Australia's central bank also took steps to tighten monetary policy this week, while the Bank of Canada said last week it would stop expanding its balance sheet. The European Central Bank is also slowing the pace of its purchases this quarter.

Given the policy shifts, you would think investors might be panicking. After all, the amount of cash in the system has been the major force behind market euphoria following the pandemic crash.
"The main driver in the market today, it's this phenomenal pool of liquidity, " Vis Raghavan, JPMorgan's CEO for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, told me this week. "The market is just awash with money. Every asset class is exceptionally busy."
But there's been no "taper tantrum" as there was in 2013, when the Fed signaled that it would eventually decelerate asset purchases, sparking a sharp bond selloff and global market turbulence. The Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite all hit all-time highs on Wednesday, and the bond market is holding steady.
Why? First, the messaging has been extremely clear. Raghavan thinks it's also evident that central banks would be willing to go all-in again should the post-pandemic recovery go south. After 2020, their willingness to flex their muscle is no secret.
"No one wants any economic tumult to sack this recovery," he said. "Whatever happens, there will be intervention to assure there's no economic pain."
Fed Chair Jerome Powell — who last year saw the central bank's balance sheet grow to $7.4 trillion, the highest level on record — indicated as much on Wednesday. 
"We are prepared to adjust the pace of purchases if warranted by changes in the economic outlook," he said.
But with inflation rising at the fastest rate in three decades, the question now is whether central banks will need to taper stimulus even more aggressively or risk missing their moment to keep a lid on price increases. That will require careful communication to keep investors on the same page.
Powell said the Fed won't raise interest rates until the labor market makes more progress. But does the central bank risk getting left behind?
Watch this space: There was a chance the Bank of England would become the first major central bank to raise interest rates since the crisis hit on Thursday — but it held rates steady at a record low 0.1%. Bank of America's team thinks the central bank will hike rates twice by February.
OPEC is under serious pressure to pump more crude
Even as the world debates the end of fossil fuels at COP26 in Glasgow, OPEC and its allies are discussing whether to pump more oil to ease soaring prices that are fueling global inflation and hurting vulnerable households.
The latest: Energy ministers from major producers including Saudi Arabia and Russia meeting virtually on Thursday are under pressure from big customers such as the United States to increase production by more than the planned 400,000 barrels per day, my CNN Business colleague Charles Riley reports.
Speaking earlier this week at the climate summit in Glasgow, President Joe Biden said that rising gasoline prices are "a consequence" of "the refusal of Russia or the OPEC nations to pump more oil."
"We'll see what happens on that score sooner than later," Biden added.
Step back: The price of Brent crude oil, the global benchmark, has doubled over the past year to more than $83 per barrel as the global economy rebounds from its pandemic slump. Bank of America predicts that prices will zoom even higher and hit $120 per barrel by June 2022.
Soaring oil prices would dampen the recovery at a crucial moment, and elevated gasoline prices could have political ramifications for Democrats heading into the 2022 midterm elections. US gas prices have surged to a seven-year high of $3.40 a gallon nationally and are flirting with $4 in Nevada, Washington and Oregon.
Remember: OPEC member countries produce about 40% of the world's crude oil. OPEC has been coordinating production decisions in recent years with other major producers including Russia as part of a larger grouping called OPEC+.
"The external flex on OPEC+ from oil-producing countries is mounting, especially from the United States," said Rystad Energy analyst Louise Dickson.
Web Summit CEO says regulators should look to China
Looking to put the pandemic behind them, more than 40,000 people are in Lisbon for Web Summit, Europe's largest tech festival. 
A lot of them are talking about Facebook. Whistleblower Frances Haugen kicked off the event Monday by asserting the company would be "stronger" if founder Mark Zuckerberg stepped down as chief executive. On Wednesday, Chris Cox, Facebook's chief product officer, said that the social media giant welcomed "difficult conversations."
"It's good for us and it's good for society," he said, while touting the company's pivot to virtual and augmented reality technologies. "We are not perfect."
Web Summit CEO Paddy Cosgrave told me that the arrival of whistleblowers on the scene is helping regulators build momentum.
"They're moving faster than they've ever moved before to write legislation to begin to address some of these problems," he said in an interview.
One potential model? Cosgrave thinks regulators should look to China, which he said is implementing "very sensible policies" related to social media and protecting children. 
Earlier this year, Beijing barred online gamers under the age of 18 from playing on weekdays. Douyin, the Chinese version of TikTok, is introducing a "teenage mode" limiting the amount of time children under the age of 14 can spend on the app — a move seen as an attempt to get ahead of potential regulation.
Up next
Cars.com (CARS), Dine Brands (DIN), Kellogg (K), Moderna (MRNA), Nikola, Papa John's (PZZA) and ViacomCBS (VIACA) report results before US markets open. Airbnb, Datadog (DDOG), Expedia Group (EXPE), Live Nation (LYV), Pinterest (PINS), Redfin (RDFN), Square (SQ) and Uber (UBER) follow after the close.
Also today: Initial US jobless claims for last week post at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Coming tomorrow: A strong US jobs report for October could feed chatter about the Fed hiking interest rates sooner than expected.

 (CNN)With his victory in the Virginia gubernatorial race, Glenn Youngkin wrote a new Republican playbook for keeping Donald Trump's base engaged without alienating the voters who were repelled by the former President in recent elections.
That's despite running against a rival, Democratic former Gov. Terry McAuliffe, whose closing message -- in speeches, debates and television advertisements -- was devoted almost entirely to convincing voters that Youngkin was no different than Trump. 
Republicans say Youngkin's win offers the party lessons it can apply across the 2022 midterm election landscape. Youngkin walked a tightrope on the right-wing grievances being fueled by conservative media. He said he favors auditing voting machines regularly, without embracing Trump's lies about widespread voter fraud. He said he would ban critical race theory, but characterized his position as favoring teaching "the good and the bad" of history without pitting children against each other. 
Mostly, though, he focused on a broader education message -- as well as kitchen-table economic issues such as eliminating the grocery tax and suspending the most recent increase in Virginia's gas tax -- that appealed to voters outside of Trump's base. 
"Youngkin winning shows that 'Stop the Steal' isn't the winning formula for purple states," a Georgia Republican operative said.
It was a performance that came with the electoral upside that Trump had brought the GOP with its base -- without the cost of losing moderates and independents. Youngkin delivered a dominant, Trump-like performance among White voters in rural Virginia. But he also won back a share of the suburbanites who had abandoned Trump and handed Democrats control of the House in 2018 and the presidency in 2020. 
"The biggest thing Youngkin was able to do was bridge the gap between the increasingly populist base and some of the more mild-mannered traditional Republicans voters who blanched at Trump's style," said veteran Republican strategist Liam Donovan. 
Trump endorsed Youngkin and issued a series of statements praising him. He also held an invite-only tele-rally on the eve of the election that was organized without Youngkin's involvement. But he did not visit the state, and after his ban from major social media platforms, did not have a significant role in the race.
"Glenn benefited from Trump's relatively low profile, both in the sense that his absence undermined McAuliffe's preferred argument, and because his nominal support was still a key signifier for motivating MAGA-minded voters who might otherwise be wary of an establishment-friendly candidate," Donovan said.
Youngkin led a ticket that swept Republicans into power in a state where President Joe Biden had won by 10 points just one year earlier.
"In Virginia at least, without Trump on the ballot, Republicans are winning back Romney-Clinton voters faster than Democrats are winning back Obama-Trump voters or finding new voters. If that trend holds, there is no math that gives Democrats the House, Senate, or White House," wrote Dan Pfeiffer, a long-time top aide to former President Barack Obama. 
Education's central role
At the core of Youngkin's win, many Republicans said, was his message on education. 
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy told reporters Wednesday that as many as 70 House seats would be competitive next year. He said Republicans will unveil a "parental bill of rights" as the GOP seeks to make education and cultural issues a centerpiece of the party's midterm strategy.
"Youngkin's success reveals that Republicans can and must become the party of parents. There is real energy from parents that we need to understand," Rep. Jim Banks, the Indiana Republican who chairs the conservative Republican Study Committee, wrote in a three-page memo that outlined a series of policies GOP candidates could campaign on in 2022. 

"Democrats are attacking our schools in new ways, and conservatives must adjust," Banks wrote. "Glenn Youngkin understood this. He knew parents weren't just concerned about traditional education issues, but rather viewed education as an extension of the culture war." 
Youngkin tapped into the grievances of parents with a mixture of education-focused messages: He pledged to end coronavirus-related protocols and keep schools open full-time. He said he would deliver pay raises for teachers and more funding for special education. He committed to a rapid expansion of charter school options. He promised parental involvement in schools' curriculum, and said he would ban the teaching of critical race theory, which isn't part of Virginia's education standards but has nonetheless become a popular target among Republicans. 
And then, with a gaffe in their second and final debate, McAuliffe helped Youngkin unite the constituencies for those disparate messages. 
"I don't think parents should be telling schools what they should teach," McAuliffe said in that debate. 
CNN's exit polls showed that 52% of Virginia voters said parents should have "a lot" of say in what is taught in schools -- and Youngkin got the votes of 77% of that group, while McAuliffe won by huge margins among those who said "some" or "not much." 
At Youngkin's rally in Richmond the day before the election, Anne Taydus, a stay-at-home mother from Chesterfield County who said she got involved in local school board meetings this year, wore a shirt that said: "Children first, common sense second, politics and fear dead last." 
"It's not just about Virginia, it's not just about Chesterfield County, it's everybody, people who have had their hope and their faith in America squashed by the Democrats and the Democratic Party," she said. 
"You don't mess with the kids," she said. "You just don't mess with the children and that's a national feeling."
Youngkin's built-in advantages
Youngkin had several advantages that would be difficult for other candidates to replicate -- including personal wealth that allowed him to define himself in television ads before McAuliffe could effectively link him to Trump. 
Youngkin also benefitted from Virginia Republicans choosing their gubernatorial nominee at a convention, rather than holding a drawn-out primary in which fealty to Trump would have likely become the defining issue.
A key question facing Republicans next year is whether candidates who can win general elections will survive primary contests against more strident, Trump-aligned figures, and whether the party's base will rally around them if they do. Otherwise, the party could face losses reminiscent of blown races by hard-line conservatives in 2010 and 2012. 
Trump, for his part, has made clear that he intends to insert himself into races and claim credit for GOP victories.
"I would like to thank my BASE for coming out in force and voting for Glenn Youngkin. Without you, he would not have been close to winning," he said in a statement. "The MAGA movement is bigger and stronger than ever before."
Youngkin also brought his own strengths to the table. The former Rice basketball player and chief executive of the private equity firm The Carlyle Group was an unproven commodity as a first-time candidate -- and carried the risk of facing attacks similar to those Mitt Romney faced as a presidential candidate in 2012.
"Glenn proved to be a really solid, natural retail pol, which as a first time candidate was not always assured. You can't teach that," Donovan said.
Biden's declining favorability, said one GOP strategist involved in 2022 races who was on hand for Youngkin's victory party in Chantilly on Tuesday night, gave Youngkin an opening with voters beginning to doubt Democratic policies.
But the strategist said Youngkin also tapped into a series of issues -- crime, the economy and education -- that will work for Republicans in other states, too. Youngkin drew contrasts with McAuliffe and tapped into economic issues that have emerged during Biden's presidency without reminding voters of Trump. 
Education was a particularly salient issue in Virginia for Youngkin, the strategist said; other issues, such as immigration, might play that role in other states. 
"Youngkin had a message, was very disciplined and handled Trump with respect. Virginia punished Biden too," said Scott Reed, the former chief political strategist for the US Chamber of Commerce. 
CNN's Dan Merica, Michael Warren and Melanie Zanona contributed to this report.
 (CNN)A simmering war within the Georgia Republican Party is about -- what else? -- Donald Trump.
The former President -- still angry over how Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp responded to the 2020 election results in his state -- may get his wish for a credible primary challenger to the Republican leader. Republicans in the state have told CNN they expect former Sen. David Perdue to make a decision soon about running against Kemp in next year's primary, after Perdue allies floated the possibility last month.
At the center of the potential fight is Trump's false contention that the election was stolen, with the narrow victory for Joe Biden in Georgia as a central part of the tale. Despite Kemp's call for an audit that turned up no substantial change in the overall vote count, Trump continues to blame the governor for not contesting the results enough and has vowed to back a primary challenger.
So far, no one of note has emerged to take on Kemp and get the Trump endorsement. A Perdue bid for governor could change that.
A match-up between Kemp and Perdue could not only upend Georgia's governor race but split the GOP at a time when the party's dominance in the state has been threatened by recent electoral wins by Democrats. Some Republicans fear that a contested primary over the issue of the 2020 election could only further damage the GOP, which, in addition to the losing the presidential election there, also lost both of its US Senate seats in Georgia this year in runoff elections -- including Perdue's.
"I would hate to see two good men run against each other," said Eric Tanenblatt, a veteran GOP strategist and former chief of staff to former Republican Gov. Sonny Perdue. "Having watched the Republican Party become the dominant party in Georgia, it's puzzling to me we would see a sitting incumbent Republican governor be challenged by another Republican."
Georgia Rep. Buddy Carter, a staunch supporter of Trump in the US House, told CNN Tuesday that he does and will continue to support Kemp for governor. The Republican congressman added that he does not know what Perdue will do. 
"My hope is that he won't run," said Carter. "My hope is that we'll have just one candidate that we can unify behind."
But other allies of the former President counter that Kemp will be unable to keep Trump voters in the fold. On Sunday, Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House and a Trump ally, posted on his personal website that only Perdue, not Kemp, could unite the party and defeat Democrat Stacey Abrams, who has not yet declared but is thought to be considering her own bid for governor.
The result of all this is what one Republican operative in Georgia called a "meltdown" by Kemp's political operation in its attempt to discourage Perdue from running. Republican critics of Kemphave accused the governor's chief of staff of threatening potential Perdue allies with political retribution. Meanwhile, Kemp's PAC and campaign have been hiring members of Perdue's wider political circle.
"They're playing hardball," said a second GOP operative in Georgia.
Kemp allies, on the other hand, say the governor is simply taking the threat of a primary challenge from a former US senator seriously. 
"It's gonna be an all-out fight," said one person allied with Kemp.
When asked for comment, a spokesman for Kemp's campaign provided CNN with a statement.
"Governor Kemp and Marty proudly campaigned hard for -- and with -- former Senator Perdue and Bonnie throughout the 2020 election cycle," said Tate Mitchell. "Both the Governor and the First Lady were honored when Senator Perdue told them personally that he would fully support their campaign for re-election earlier this year."
Efforts to reach Perdue for comment were unsuccessful.
Kemp ready to fight
On Monday, Kemp launched a TV ad that makes a positive case for his first term as governor. The ad highlights Georgia's economic health along with policies meant to appeal to Republican primary voters.
The ad touts that Kemp "backed the blue, stopping the radical left from defunding local police," "passed a tough new election integrity bill," and "kept our schools and businesses open, while keeping Georgians safe" during the pandemic.
But the sunny tone of the ad is at odds with what people close to Kemp say would be a brutal campaign against Perdue if he challenges the governor.
Nothing, the Kemp ally said, would be off limits for going after Perdue and making his life "a living hell." 
"W​​e'd have the resources and we'd have the motive," said this person.
That may include targeting a series of stock trades Perdue made in January 2020 following a briefing about the then-nascent coronavirus pandemic. 
The New York Times reported last year that the Justice Department opened an investigation into Perdue's transactions but declined to press charges. A spokeswoman for Perdue at the time, Casey Black, told CNN, "Separate reviews by the Department of Justice, the Securities & Exchange Commission, and the bipartisan Senate Ethics Committee each quickly and independently cleared Senator Perdue of any wrongdoing."
The saber-rattling from Kemp allies only underscores how the governor's team is on guard about a looming primary fight.
Their fears are two-fold: One, that Perdue can successfully challenge Kemp with the backing of Trump; and two, that Kempsurvives a bitter primary fight that leaves him and the party damaged ahead of the 2022 general election, which Republicans believe would be another tough battle after Kemp's narrow 2018 victory over Democrat Stacey Abrams. 
Adding to the stakes is the GOP's fight to win back a Senate seat from Democrat Raphael Warnock, who defeated Perdue's fellow Republican Kelly Loeffler in the other runoff election earlier this year. 
The top Republican in the Senate primary, football great Herschel Walker, has a troubled personal history, including allegations uncovered by CNN Investigates and other news outlets that the former football star threatened women with violence beyond what he disclosed in his memoir. That has some GOP strategists worried about Walker's chances against Warnock. A well-positioned gubernatorial candidate at the top of the ticket could help boost Walker.
But despite the warning signs to the Trump-led GOP the 2020 presidential election and the 2021 Senate runoffs, Trump remains a force among Georgia Republicans, particularly those who vote in primaries.
"David Perdue with Donald Trump's backing is dangerous," said the second GOP operative.
Trump's Georgia focus
Trump has focused his ire particularly on Georgia Republicans he deems disloyal in the wake of the 2020 election.
Georgia's Republican secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, received the brunt of Trump's anger about his loss in the state by fewer than 12,000 votes. In a January 2 phone call with Raffensperger, Trump asked the secretary of state to "find" enough votes for Trump to make up the difference -- a request the Georgia Republican rejected. Raffensperger now faces a formidable primary challenge from Rep. Jody Hice, whom Trump has endorsed.
"Unlike the current Georgia Secretary of State, Jody leads out front with integrity," Trump said in a statement in March. "Jody will stop the Fraud and get honesty into our Elections!"
Trump made a similar appeal to Kemp, asking in a phone call in December 2020 for the Georgia governor to convene state legislators to select pro-Trump electors. Kemp, who had already approved the certification of Georgia's electoral votes for Joe Biden, told Trump he had no authority to do anything to change the election results.
In response, Trump blasted Kemp as a "RINO" and later said he was "ashamed" to have endorsed him in 2018. During an appearance in Georgia before the Senate runoff elections in January, Trump vowed to campaign against Kemp before the 2022 primary.
But Trump's struggles to find someone with the ability to take on Kemp show how difficult it can be to take on an incumbent governor, particularly one as powerful as Georgia's. Burt Jones, a state senator and perhaps Trump's most ardent supported among elected officials in the Peach State, resisted overtures from the former president to take on Kemp. Instead, Jones is running in an open primary for lieutenant governor.
Last December, Trump publicly floated that outgoing Rep. Doug Collins could run for governor. But Collins, who had unsuccessfully run for the Senate in last year's special election, announced in April he would not be running for any office in 2022.
And while former state Rep. Vernon Jones (no relation to Burt Jones), who is close to several in Trump's orbit, got into the race for governor in April, Trump has not yet backed him. A former Democrat, Jones was a fixture at Trump campaign rallies and spoke at the Republican National Convention in 2020. He switched parties this year and has become a vocal avatar for the right wing of the Republican base.
Despite striking out, Trump's animosity toward Kemp has not abated.
While at a rally in Georgia in September, Trump even said he would prefer if Abrams, who may run again for governor next year, had the top job instead of Kemp. Party leaders were caught flat-footed by the remark but seemed unwilling to rebuke the former president or rally to Kemp's side.
"I think the most notable part is the quiet of everyone in the GOP in Georgia," said Erick Erickson, an Atlanta-based talk radio host, told CNN at the time. "No one agrees with him. No one is endorsing it. But no one is vocally pushing back, either."
CNN's Manu Raju contributed to this story.
 (CNN)Beto O'Rourke, who announced his campaign for Texas governor last week, declined to invite President Joe Biden to campaign alongside him, pushing a message of nonpartisan unity in his upcoming bid for the highest office in Texas.
O'Rourke said his campaign is "not going to be about anyone from outside of our state," when asked by CNN's Dana Bash on "State of the Union" whether he would welcome Biden to Texas to help him campaign. When pressed for a second time whether he'd want Biden to visit the state, he again declined to extend an invitation.
"This campaign in Texas is not going to be about Joe Biden. It's not going to be about Donald Trump. It's not going to be about anyone from outside of our state. This is going to be about the people of Texas and what the people of Texas want," O'Rourke said. "I'm focused on Texas and on my fellow Texans. Those are the people most important to me. There's no politician, there's no other person from outside of this state who can help change the course of this election, for better or for worse."

O'Rourke's comments reflect a broader disapproval with Biden nationally and suggest a visit from the President could hurt his campaign more than help. Two polls last week reaffirmed Biden's worsening popularity among Americans. A Quinnipiac University poll showed 36% of respondents approve of Biden's handling of his job, compared to 53% who disapprove. A Marquette University Law School poll measured Biden's approval rating at 49 percent against 51 percent who disapprove.
O'Rourke said he wants his campaign to reach across party lines and unite Texans to advance their priorities, saying, "It's the time for Texas to realize our full potential."
"I want to help bring this state together not as Democrats, not as Republicans, but as Texans, and get back after doing the big things that Texas used to be known for," O'Rourke said.
'We don't want extremism in our gun law'
O'Rourke also defended comments he made during a 2019 presidential debate on gun laws where he said "we're gonna take your AR-15, your AK-47." O'Rourke said he "still holds this view" while adding he "wants to protect the Second Amendment."
"We don't want extremism in our gun law. We want to protect the Second Amendment, we want to protect the lives of our fellow Texans," he said, taking a more moderate tone.
O'Rourke responded to the verdict in the trial of Kyle Rittenhouse, the 18-year-old who was acquitted of murder charges after shooting two protesters with an AR-15 in Kenosha, Wisconsin in 2020. He said the case highlights the need for gun law reform and called for the restriction of access to military-style firearms.

"This entire tragedy makes the case that we should not allow our fellow Americans to own and use weapons that were originally designed for battlefield use," O'Rourke said. "That AR-15, that AK-47 has one single solitary purpose and that is killing people as effectively as efficiently and as great a number in as little time as possible."
This story has been updated with additional information.

 (CNN)Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador will come to the White House on November 18 to meet with President Joe Biden for the first North American Leaders' Summit since 2016. 
"During the Summit, the United States, Mexico, and Canada will reaffirm their strong ties and integration while also charting a new path for collaboration on ending the COVID-19 pandemic and advancing health security; competitiveness and equitable growth, to include climate change; and a regional vision for migration," a statement from the White House said.
It has been five years since the leaders convened for the trilateral summit. No official summits between the leaders of the three countries were held while former President Donald Trump was in office.
"Strengthening our partnership is essential to our ability to build back better, to revitalize our leadership, and to respond to a widening range of regional and global challenges," the White House said in the statement. 
It continued: "With respect for each other's sovereignty and in a true spirit of partnership, we affirm our unwavering vision that North America is the most competitive and dynamic region in the world."
The summit comes shortly after the US began easing restrictions on travel for fully vaccinated visitors from Canada and Mexico, relaxing bans that have been in place for more than 18 months. 
Since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, the US was limiting nonessential travel on the ground along its borders with Canada and Mexico and extending those restrictions on a monthly basis. These travel restrictions were heavily scrutinized by lawmakers and border mayors who urged the Biden administration to adjust limits to meet the evolving landscape. 
The US-Mexico border has also been facing an influx of migrants that has overwhelmed resources. This has prompted some concern among US Customs and Border Protection officials about easing travel restrictions on the US southern border while surging personnel to assist with an uptick in migrants.
Though the leaders of the three countries didn't hold a summit while Trump was in office, they did come to an agreement to update the Clinton-era North American Free Trade Agreement. 
Trump signed the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law early last year. The deal was signed by the three countries' leaders in November 2018, but the text was later changed after months of closed-door negotiations between the Trump administration and House Democrats.
The USMCA includes new provisions for digital commerce, more stringent rules of origin for auto parts and new minimum wage requirements for certain autoworkers.
Since taking office, Biden has met virtually with both López Obrador and Trudeau, and the President saw Trudeau recently at the G20 summit in Rome. 
This story has been updated with additional background information.
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez contributed to this report. 
A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.
London (CNN Business)In spring 2020, in the depths of coronavirus lockdowns, investors couldn't dump Macy's (M) stock fast enough. Shares fell as low as $4.38 apiece.
That was then. On Thursday, Macy's stock jumped 21% after the company reported better-than-expected earnings. That brought gains so far this year to more than 230%. A share now costs $37.37.
What's happening: Once out of favor as mall closures rose and coronavirus restrictions kept people at home, department stores are finding love again on Wall Street.
Kohl's (KSS) shares popped 11% on Thursday after it reported earnings. The stock has rallied 54% this year. Shares of Dillard's (DDS) have shot up more than 480%.

What gives? First, consumer spending has surged. Shoppers say they're worried about inflation, but continue to shell out for items they held off buying last year.
Macy's — the largest US department store chain — reported revenue up 36% year-over-year. Shoppers snapped up tailored suits, luggage and dresses.
"The consumer is healthy, and we expect the strong demand to continue, particularly as people return to work," finance chief Adrian Mitchell told analysts.
Bank of America reports that spending on credit and debit cards in the week ending Nov. 13 rose 23% compared with the same period in 2019. Some of that increase is due to higher prices, according to the bank's analysts.
Macy's started planning for supply chain disruptions late last year, Cowen analyst Oliver Chen noted. That puts it in a good position to take advantage of holiday shopping this year.
Department stores have also shuttered locations that weren't performing well in recent years. Research firm CoStar said that retailers announced plans to shut more than 11,100 stores in 2020, an all-time high.
In February 2020, Macy's said it would close 125 stores by 2023.
One more thing: Investors are coming around to Macy's digital strategy. Online sales jumped 49% last quarter compared to 2019. Chen noted that the company is making "significant investments" in its app.
Macy's also plans to launch a digital marketplace in the second half of 2022 which will include third-party sellers. The announcement comes as the company faces pressure from an activist investor to spin off its e-commerce business, as Saks Fifth Avenue did.
Not everyone is a convert. According to Refinitiv, just three Wall Street analysts have "buy" recommendations for Macy's stock, while nine are neutral and five are advising clients to sell.
In a note this week, Bank of America said that despite the solid quarter, it's still not bullish on Macy's "given our view that department stores face long-term structural issues."
Carmakers get serious about fighting chip shortages
Shortages of computer chips have been a nightmare for carmakers this year, forcing them to idle production at plants around the world and hindering their ability to meet a jump in demand for vehicles.
Now they've decided enough is enough; they're getting into the chip business themselves.

The latest: Ford (F) announced Thursday that it's partnering with GlobalFoundries, a chip manufacturer majority owned by Abu Dhabi's sovereign wealth fund.
Together, the two companies plan to boost production capacity for Ford's lineup and conduct research on the semiconductors that will be crucial to the next generation of vehicles.
General Motors (GM) President Mark Reuss also said at an industry conference on Thursday that the company will team up with chipmakers like Qualcomm (QCOM) and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company to develop the chips it needs.
"We see the semiconductor requirements more than doubling over the next several years as the vehicles that we produce become more of a technology [platform]," Reuss said.
Remember: GM's revenue plunged nearly 25% last quarter despite record high car prices, while Ford said its automotive revenue fell 4% from a year ago. The difficulty in securing chips has been a major reason the companies have been sputtering.
That's pushing carmakers to assume greater control of their supply chains.
"It's critical that we create new ways of working with suppliers to give Ford — and America — greater independence in delivering the technologies and features our customers will most value in the future," Ford CEO Jim Farley said in a statement. "This agreement is just the beginning."
Workers are crying out for a four-day week
American workers are quitting in record numbers — 4.3 million in August, and another 4.4 million in September. Managers across industries are having trouble hiring, even as they raise wages and offer incentives.
But a new survey offers support for a not-so-radical but still uncommon solution, my CNN Business colleague Allison Morrow reports: the four-day workweek.
Researchers at Jefferies asked Americans ages 22 to 35 who had quit their jobs recently what their former bosses could have done to persuade them to stay. Thirty-two percent said they would have stuck around if they'd been offered a four-day work week. That was the second most-common answer, right behind the 43% who would have stayed for more money.
The study also found 80% of respondents support a four-day workweek.
The idea is hardly new, but has been gaining steam thanks to high levels of worker burnout in the wake of the pandemic. Over the summer, US lawmaker Mark Takano of California introduced legislation that would amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 — which codified the 40-hour model we now live with — to reduce the standard workweek to 32 hours. 
Not just the rank-and-file: CEO turnover has also jumped, as overworked executives decide to shake up their careers, according to a study from recruiting firm Heidrick & Struggles.
"Our belief is that it will only accelerate going into next year as people have delayed their retirements," Jeff Sanders, a co-managing partner at the company, told Reuters.
Up next
Foot Locker (FL) reports results before US markets open.
Also today: The US House of Representatives reconvenes as Democrats aim to pass President Joe Biden's $1.9 trillion social safety net package.
Coming up: Investors are waiting for Biden to announce his decision for chair of the Federal Reserve. Will Jerome Powell get another term, or will the president opt for new leadership?

Washington (CNN)President Joe Biden and Britain's Prince Charles met on Tuesday at the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, Scotland, with the two leaders using the encounter to discuss "the importance of global cooperation in tackling climate change," a senior administration official told CNN. 
The official said that Biden and Prince Charles met on the sidelines of the conference, which -- now in its second day -- has featured nearly 120 world leaders addressing the climate crisis and how to address it. 
"They underlined the need for ambitious commitments and concrete actions among partners worldwide and discussed Prince Charles' initiatives to engage the private sector on sustainability," the official said of the meeting.  
"President Biden reaffirmed the strength of the enduring ties between the United Kingdom and the United States, and he thanked the United Kingdom for hosting COP26," the official added. "He commended the Royal Family for its dedication to climate issues, particularly Prince Charles' environmental activism over the last half century."
The meeting comes as leaders gathered in Glasgow, including Biden and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, to commit to changes in their countries to slow down and mitigate the effects of climate change. Biden on Tuesday targeted planet-warming methane emissions, announcing strong new US regulations and launching a Global Methane Pledge, in partnership with the European Union, that has been signed by around 100 countries. 
For his part, Prince Charles on Monday implored countries to work with industries to create solutions to climate change. 
"My plea today is for countries to come together to create the environment that enables every sector of industry to take the action required. We know this will take trillions, not billions, of dollars," he said.
He also charged that climate change and loss of biodiversity pose a great threat and put the world on "war-like footing." 
Though Queen Elizabeth II was not in attendance at the climate summit after doctors advised her to rest instead of traveling, she welcomed attendees in a taped message on Monday, invoking the legacy of her late husband and noted environmentalist, Prince Phillip, who died earlier this year at the age of 99.
The Queen paid tribute to the work of Prince Philip, which she said "Iives on through the work of our eldest son Charles and his eldest son William. I could not be more proud of them."

 (CNN)President Joe Biden on Monday signed into law a $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package and marked the major legislative victory at a White House event with lawmakers from both parties.
"The bill I'm about to sign into law is proof that despite the cynics, Democrats and Republicans can come together and deliver results. We can do this. We can deliver real results for real people," Biden said, speaking from the South Lawn at the White House. 
The President said: "We're taking a monumental step forward to build back better as a nation."
"Here in Washington, we've heard countless speeches and promises and white papers from experts. But today we're finally getting this done. So my message to the American people is this: America's moving again, and your life is going to change for the better," Biden said. 
The ceremony comes as Biden is facing slumping poll numbers ahead of next year's critical midterm elections following a bruising gubernatorial loss for Democrats in Virginia earlier this month. Discontent over the pandemic and resulting economic problems -- including record inflation -- are contributing to Biden's lagging popularity. A new ABC-Washington Post poll out over the weekend put the President's approval rating at 41% approve, 53% disapprove. 
Biden thanked and praised several senators who were key to the bill's passage, including Republican Sen. Rob Portman of Ohio and Democratic Sen. Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, who both spoke at the event. The President called Portman a "hell of a good guy" and joked that his praise of the Republican would not hurt Portman since he isn't running for reelection in 2022. 
Notably, Biden also thanked Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who did not attend the signing ceremony, "for voting for this bill and talking about how useful and important it is." 
The President thanked several other top Democrats in the House, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and recognized several committee chairs, ranking members and governors. He also thanked organized labor, "who understands this is about jobs. Y'all stood up. Jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs."
The legislation will deliver $550 billion of new federal investments in America's infrastructure over five years, including money for roads, bridges, mass transit, rail, airports, ports and waterways. The package includes a $65 billion investment in improving the nation's broadband infrastructure and invests tens of billions of dollars in improving the electric grid and water systems. Another $7.5 billion would go to building a nationwide network of plug-in electric vehicle chargers, according to the bill text. 
"This law is a blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America. It leaves no one behind and marks an inflection point that we face as a nation," Biden said. 
"We compromised. We reached a consensus. That's necessary. Now our focus moves to implementing an infrastructure law with speed and with discipline," he added. 
The legislation is the first part of Biden's two-part economic agenda. The bipartisan infrastructure package focuses on "hard" infrastructure like roads and bridges, and Democrats will now turn to the larger package that focuses on what the President calls "human" infrastructure, which includes investments for family care, to address the climate crisis and expand access to health care. That second piece of legislation still faces an uncertain fate in Congress amid clashes between progressives and moderates. 
Congress returned to Washington Monday after a weeklong recess to a bevy of critical issues before the holidays, including passing Biden's broader economic and climate agenda, funding the government before a December 3 deadline, and raising the debt limit.
The bipartisan infrastructure bill, first passed by the Senate in a 69 to 30 vote in August, was passed by the House, including 13 Republican lawmakers, on November 5. 
A group of former House Republican lawmakers issued a statement Monday in support of the infrastructure legislation and took aim at House GOP leaders for their silence as members from their own conference have come under attack -- and faced death threats -- for supporting it.
"By remaining silent and failing to publicly defend these 13 members, House GOP leaders are demonstrating their fear of extreme elements within their own conference at the expense of some of their most politically vulnerable members who are essential to winning a House majority," the former lawmakers wrote. 
The signing ceremony marked a rare bipartisan gathering, with state and local officials attending from both sides of the aisle.
Besides Portman, Republican Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Susan Collins and Bill Cassidy were also scheduled to be in attendance. Moderate Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin, a key holdout on the ongoing negotiations on Biden's Build Back Better agenda, was there, as were GOP Reps. Don Young of Alaska and Tom Reed of New York.
Bipartisan state and local officials were also scheduled to attend the event, the White House aide said, including GOP Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, with whom Biden highlighted provisions from the package last week in Baltimore, Democratic Govs. Kate Brown of Oregon and John Bel Edwards of Louisiana, plus the mayors of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Columbia, South Carolina, Long Beach, California, and Chicago, Illinois. 
Key business representatives also took part in the celebration, including the leaders of United Airlines, Ford, the US Chamber of Commerce, and other groups. And unions, including leaders of IBEW, Teamsters, and United Auto Workers, were present.
Oklahoma City Mayor David Holt, a Republican, told CNN the bill will provide funding for his city's roads and bridges.
"This is a celebratory day for mayors. We have fought for the better part of a decade to get this major investment in our nation's infrastructure. So I'm very pleased that Congress and the White House were able to work together to finally get this done. This means a lot for roads and bridges, water infrastructure, broadband, passenger rail, transit, all the things that are core infrastructure and that cities like mine really need help with," Holt told CNN's "New Day."
Former New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu, who has been named a senior adviser and will oversee coordination of the bill's implementation on behalf of the White House, was also set to be on hand. 
Landrieu, the White House said, "will oversee the most significant and comprehensive investments in American infrastructure in generations -- work that independent experts verify will create millions of high-paying, union jobs while boosting our economic competitiveness in the world, strengthening our supply chains, and acting against inflation for the long term."
Top administration officials, as well as the President, have said it will take some time for Americans to see and feel the results of the bill's investments.
"They'll see the effects of the bill -- this bill -- probably starting within the next two to three months," Biden told reporters following the bill's passage, adding that it is "going to have a profound impact over time."
This story has been updated with comments from President Joe Biden. 
Manu Raju contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)President Joe Biden's commission on the Supreme Court is delaying submission of its final report by one month to December 15, a source familiar with the commission told CNN.
The commission, which was formed via executive order in April, initially was scheduled to complete its final report by mid-November -- 180 days after its first public meeting. But the source says the panel has decided to add another deliberative meeting to its schedule, seeking "a little more time to work through this important substance."
According to the new timeline, the commission will hold its fifth public meeting on November 19 to discuss revised discussion materials that will be released one day prior. The commission's draft report will be released December 6 ahead of the commission's final meeting on December 7, before submitting a final report in mid-December.
The new timeline was first reported by Punchbowl News.
As a presidential candidate, Biden announced his intention to form a commission to review possible reforms to the Supreme Court amid pressure to stake out a position on court expansion. But the panel is not expected to produce concrete recommendations for possible changes to the nation's highest court, instead focusing on its evaluation of various reform proposals.
Draft materials released by the commission last month seemed to find consensus in favor of term limits but appearing divided over adding more seats to the bench.
The materials considered four areas for the court's reforms: "Membership and Size of the Court," "Term Limits," "The Court's Role in the Constitutional System," and "Case Selection and Review: Docket, Rules, and Practices."
The commission argued in its 30-page "Term Limits" document that "there are principled reasons favoring term limits for Supreme Court Justices, as they simultaneously would preserve the value of judicial independence and ensure that the Court's membership is broadly responsive to the outcome of democratic elections over time."
However, it was less determinative on the question of "court packing," laying out the pros and cons of each argument and going into detail on the history of the size of the court. After detailing how adding members could help restore the balance of the court the report also notes that such expansion could "further degrade the confirmation process."
"There could be significant battles over any Justice added by a Court expansion measure," the report stated, and adds that a "future Senate could respond to expansion by refusing to confirm anyone."
CNN's Maegan Vazquez and Ariane De Vogue contributed to this report.
 (CNN)The Biden administration has suffered three major court losses since Monday morning, with orders freezing key federal government Covid-19 vaccine rules in certain parts of the country and, in one case, nationwide.
The latest blow came from a federal judge in Louisiana, whose order Tuesday afternoon halted across the country the administration's mandate requiring that certain health care workers be vaccinated.  
The order in the Louisiana case was delivered a day after the administration's health care worker mandate had been blocked in 10 states by a federal judge overseeing a separate challenge filed in Missouri. And it came just hours after a separate Biden vaccine rule -- aimed at federal contractors -- had been put on hold in three states by a federal judge in Kentucky. 
Meanwhile, a requirement that employees of larger companies get either vaccinated or tested for Covid-19 regularly remains frozen after a scathing appeals court order blocking the mandate earlier this month. 
The administration has acted quickly to seek reversals of the orders blocking its vaccine rules.
"That threat to human life and health far exceeds the potential indirect harms to patients resulting from workers who may quit rather than receive the vaccine," the Justice Department said in one such filing Tuesday, asking for an appeals court to reinstate the mandate that covers certain health care staff at providers that participate in Medicare and Medicaid.
Claims of an 'erosion of our liberties' 
The challenges put forward different arguments for why each vaccine requirement should be blocked, touching on the administration's compliance with administrative law to constitutional claims about the federal government's abilities to regulate vaccine participation. 
In the Kentucky case concerning the mandate for federal contractors, US District Judge Gregory Frederick Van Tatenhove said Tuesday that the question before him was "narrow." 
"Can the president use congressionally delegated authority to manage the federal procurement of goods and services to impose vaccines on the employees of federal contractors and subcontractors. In all likelihood, the answer to that question is no," the President George W. Bush appointee said in his order, which blocked the contractor mandate in Kentucky, Ohio and Tennessee.  
But other judges have used more sweeping language in explaining their decisions, while downplaying vaccines' effectiveness in limiting the spread of Covid-19. 
"During a pandemic such as this one, it is even more important to safeguard the separation of powers set forth in our Constitution to avoid erosion of our liberties," said US District Judge Terry Doughty, a President Donald Trump appointee in Louisiana who blocked the health care worker mandate nationwide. 
Quick appeals by DOJ 
The Justice Department has not waited long to ask that higher courts reinstate the administration's mandates. 
The department has already asked the 8th US Circuit Court of Appeals to revive the health care worker mandate that was partially blocked Monday by the judge in the Missouri case. That appeals court is made up mostly of GOP appointees, as is the 6th Circuit, which would consider an appeal of the federal contractor decision handed down Tuesday in Kentucky. 
Tuesday's order blocking the health care worker mandate nationwide, if appealed, would go to the 5th US Circuit Court of Appeals. Earlier this month, that extremely conservative court put on hold the testing-or-vaccine regimen for large companies that the Occupational Safety and Health Administration sought to implement.  
The challenges to the OSHA mandate have been consolidated and transferred to the 6th Circuit, which has not yet acted on a Justice Department request that it revive that policy. 
All three mandates, when rolled out by the Biden administration, set December 6 deadlines for initial compliance. 
"Simply put, delaying the Standard would likely cost many lives per day, in addition to large numbers of hospitalizations, other serious health effects, and tremendous expenses," the administration said in a court filing asking the 6th Circuit to reinstate the OSHA mandate.
In response to the Tuesday order blocking the contractor mandate, the White House defended the requirement while touting the success of the government's vaccine rules for federal employees.
"Our implementation sends the clear message to businesses, including federal contractors, that similar measures will protect their workforce, protect their customers, and protect our communities," a White House spokesperson said in a statement. "We are confident in the government's authority to promote economy and efficiency in federal contracting through its vaccine requirement and the Department of Justice will vigorously defend it in court."
This headline and story have been updated with additional developments Tuesday.
CNN's Kaitlan Collins contributed reporting to this story.
 (CNN)Leaders from all corners of the US government condemned Russia's recent test of an anti-satellite weapon on Wednesday at the inaugural meeting of the National Space Council under the Biden administration, calling for accelerating the development of rules and norms in space.
"Without clear norms for the responsible use of space, we face real threats to our national and global security," said Vice President Kamala Harris, who serves as the head of the National Space Council. "By blasting debris across space, this irresponsible act endangered the satellites of other nations as well as the astronauts on the International Space Station."
The National Space Council was resurrected during the Trump administration to streamline and synchronize space priorities and policies across the federal government, and it was retained by the Biden administration.  
Space has proved to be one of the few areas where the Biden administration has maintained most of the policies of the previous administration -- from supporting the Space Force to NASA's new Artemis program, which aims to return American astronauts to the moon by the middle of this decade.
At Wednesday's meeting, Harris applauded the Artemis Accords and said the US government must work to expand the number of signatories. Thirteen nations have signed on, and Harris says France and Mexico have indicated they will bring that number up to 15. The United States' two greatest adversaries in space -- China and Russia -- have not signed on to the accords.  
The Artemis Accords are an international agreement designed to provide a framework for the peaceful exploration of the moon and Mars. Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman described the accords as "this generation's commitment to the Outer Space Treaty," the landmark 1967 space law that remains in effect to this day.
While the first meeting of the National Space Council under Harris' leadership offered a window into the administration's space policies and priorities, it produced only an outline to guide the council's efforts. 
In addition to promoting the rapid development of rules and norms to govern space, the United States Space Priorities Framework is focused on utilizing space to combat climate change and enhancing STEM education.
Those final two priorities are far more prominent for the Biden administration than the previous one, and they were reflected in an executive order signed Wednesday by President Joe Biden. The order added five members to the National Space Council: the secretaries of education, labor, agriculture and interior, as well as the national climate adviser. 
"I believe we have a responsibility to also look to our home planet," Harris said. "While exploration of space defined the 20th century, the opportunity of space must guide our work in the 21st." 

 (CNN)President Joe Biden on Friday ratcheted up pressure on Democrats to quickly approve his sweeping domestic spending bills as the two critical components of the Democratic agenda appeared on the brink of passage.
Using a strong monthly jobs report to encourage members of his party to further bolster the economy, Biden said it was incumbent on Democrats to end their squabbling and push the two bills over the finish line. Looming over his remarks was the specter of Tuesday's electoral thrashing, which has sparked the party's drive to complete its legislative business.
It remained uncertain whether that would happen on Friday. Members of the party's disparate factions were still haggling over numbers. After weeks of halting progress, few could say with certainty whether Friday would be different than previous moments when a vote seemed imminent.
Biden, who has been phoning Democrats from the White House over the last day to lock in support, said he would continue making calls from the Oval Office on Friday morning.
He said bluntly it was time for a vote. "I'm asking every member of the House of Representatives to vote yes on both these bills right now," Biden said from the White House. "Send the infrastructure bill to my desk. Send the Build Back Better bill to the Senate." 
By late Friday, the President was "urging all members to vote for both the rule for consideration of the Build Back Better Act and final passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure bill tonight."
"I am confident that during the week of November 15, the House will pass the Build Back Better Act," he said in a brief statement sent just before 9 p.m. ET.
At previous junctures, Biden hasn't been as willing to call explicitly on Democrats to hold a vote right away. He's deferred to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on the timing, and sought to give lawmakers space to make their decisions.
Some of his allies have advocated for a sharper approach, believing the President should more forcefully call for immediate action on the two bills: a bipartisan $1.2 trillion public works package and a larger climate and social safety net bill.
The House had appeared close to a vote on Thursday, but negotiations stretched into another day. Pelosi and White House officials have been engaged in intensive discussions to shore up support.
Democratic leaders want to pass both measures out of the House by Friday, but a group of moderates say they first want a full analysis by the Congressional Budget Office of the roughly $1.9 trillion social safety net expansion plan.
If leadership can't find a way to resolve the issue, they could be forced to again push back the votes in what would be an embarrassing setback for Democrats. The party has already had to punt on voting on the infrastructure bill twice in two months due to a separate set of demands from progressives. 
The White House said Thursday that Biden was speaking with moderate members to encourage them to vote for the pair of bills, though stressed he was not advocating for any specific timing.
Biden emerged from his own marathon phone call effort to tout a strong October jobs report. Government numbers showed the American economy adding 531,000 jobs last month, a sharp turnabout after two months of disappointing jobs numbers.
It was welcome news for Biden and the White House, who three days earlier were confronting questions about their political strategy after a poor showing for Democrats in Tuesday elections.
Biden said a day after the vote that voters want to see government getting things done. And he reiterated Friday that it was up to Democrats to prove they had Americans' interests in sight.
"Passing these bills will say clearly to the American people, we hear your voices, we're going to invest in your hopes, help you secure a brighter future for yourself and your family, and make sure America wins the future in the process," he said.
Biden's social spending bill would expand health care, create universal pre-kindergarten and make massive investments in curbing climate change. The infrastructure bill would invest in new roads and bridges, and expand broadband internet access.
In his remarks Friday, Biden also sought to emphasize the way the two measures would improve the economy. Even with the strong jobs numbers, he acknowledged rising prices were dampening the economic recovery for some families.
'This recovery is faster, stronger and fairer and wider than almost anyone could have predicted. That's what the numbers say," he said. "But we want to make sure that people continue to feel it in their lives, in their bank accounts, in their hopes and expectations for a tomorrow that's better than today. That's what this is all about: making sure recovery is fully felt."
He said his bills would lower inflationary pressure and give Americans "breathing room" in their finances.
"If your number one issue is the cost of living, the number one priority should be seeing Congress pass these bills," he said.
This story has been updated with additional background information and reporting.
CNN's Clare Foran, Manu Raju, Phil Mattingly and Lauren Fox contributed to this report.
 (CNN)President Joe Biden on Wednesday lamented new data showing American drug overdose deaths topped 100,000 annually for the first time, saying that "we cannot overlook this epidemic of loss, which has touched families and communities across the country." 
More than 100,000 people died of drug overdoses in the United States during the 12-month period ending April 2021, according to provisional data published Wednesday by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. That's a new record high, with overdose deaths jumping 28.5% from the same period one year earlier.
RELATED: Biden administration grapples with American addiction as overdose deaths hit a record high
Experts have told CNN that the Covid-19 pandemic and the rise in use of fentanyl have both been key contributors to the rising overdose death toll. 

In a statement discussing his administration's efforts to combat rising overdose deaths, Biden cited $4 billion in funding from the Covid-19 relief package. Provisions in the package, known as the American Rescue Plan, are aimed at expanding services for substance use disorder and mental health. The President said his administration is also "working to make health coverage more accessible and affordable for all Americans, so that more people who need care can get it." 
"We are strengthening prevention, promoting harm reduction, expanding treatment, and supporting people in recovery, as well as reducing the supply of harmful substances in our communities. And we won't let up," Biden continued. "To all those families who have mourned a loved one and to all those people who are facing addiction or are in recovery: you are in our hearts, and you are not alone. Together, we will turn the tide on this epidemic."
Opioids continue to be the driving cause of drug overdose deaths, with nearly two thirds of all drug overdose deaths being caused by synthetic opioids -- primarily fentanyl. In addition, the new data shows that overdose deaths from methamphetamine and other psychostimulants also increased significantly, up 48% in the year ending April 2021 compared to the year before.
In a call with reporters Wednesday morning, Biden administration officials reiterated that these overdoses are being driven largely by fentanyl and methamphetamine, and that those drugs are being mass produced by Mexican drug cartels sourcing drug-making chemicals from China.
Anne Milgram, the head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, said fentanyl seizures by her agency have reached a record high. 
"The amount of illegal fentanyl in our country has risen to an unprecedented level. This year alone, DEA has seen enough fentanyl to provide every member of the United States population with a lethal dose and we are still seizing more fentanyl each and every day," she continued.
The White House Office of Drug Control Policy on Wednesday also announced a new model law for states aimed to be a template for expanding access to naloxone -- an opioid overdose reversal drug.
And last month, the US Department of Health and Human Services released an overview of the Biden administration's plan to combat drug overdoses. It includes measures aimed at addressing opioid prescription practices and removing barriers to treatments, as well as recovery support and federal support for harm reduction strategies.
CNN's Deidre McPhillips contributed to this report.
 (CNN)President Joe Biden said Friday he stands by the not-guilty verdict in the Kyle Rittenhouse trial, saying the jury system of trial in the United States works and must be respected.
"Look, I stand by what the jury has concluded," he said. "The jury system works, and we have to abide by it."
Rittenhouse, the teenager who killed two people and shot another during unrest in Kenosha, Wisconsin, was acquitted Friday of first-degree intentional homicide and four other felony charges. The panel of five men and seven women deliberated more than 25 hours over the past four days in a closely watched case. The verdict cannot be appealed.
The President made the comments upon returning to the White House after a visit to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center that lasted more than five hours, where he received a routine physical and a colonoscopy.
"I just heard a moment ago," Biden said, when asked about Rittenhouse being found not guilty on all counts. "I didn't watch the trial." 
In a statement later Friday afternoon, Biden acknowledged that the verdict in the trial "will leave many Americans feeling angry and concerned, myself included." He said that everyone "must acknowledge that the jury has spoken."
In a statement released by the White House Friday afternoon, Biden said he "ran on a promise to bring Americans together, because I believe that what unites us is far greater than what divides us."
"I believe that what unites us is far greater than what divides us. I know that we're not going to heal our country's wounds overnight, but I remain steadfast in my commitment to do everything in my power to ensure that every American is treated equally, with fairness and dignity, under the law," the statement reads.
Biden also encouraged protesters to "express their views peacefully, consistent with the rule of law."
"Violence and destruction of property have no place in our democracy," the statement adds.
The President has also spoken with the Wisconsin governor this afternoon and "offered support and any assistance needed to ensure public safety."
Asked by reporters as he turned to the White House if he stood by his past comments equating Rittenhouse to a white supremacist, Biden didn't directly answer. In September 2020 then-presidential candidate Biden tweeted a video that included Rittenhouse carrying a rifle with the caption: "There's no other way to put it: the President of the United States refused to disavow white supremacists on the debate stage last night." The video was meant to criticize then-President Donald Trump.
When asked on Monday why Biden previously tweeted a video that suggested Rittenhouse is a white supremacist, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said: "What I'm not going to speak to right now is anything about an ongoing trial nor the President's past comments. What I can reiterate is the President's view is that we shouldn't have, broadly speaking, vigilantes patrolling our communities with assault weapons. We shouldn't have opportunists corrupting peaceful protest by rioting and burning down the communities they claim to represent anywhere in the country."
This story has been updated with additional reporting.
CNN's Allie Malloy contributed to this report.
 (CNN)President Joe Biden announced Monday a proposal for a 20-year ban on new oil and gas drilling near Chaco Canyon in northwest New Mexico -- one of the oldest Native American sites in the US -- White House officials said.
In the coming weeks, the Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management will start the agency process to effectively bar new oil and gas leasing on federal lands within a 10-mile radius around Chaco Culture National Historical Park. The park is one of just 24 UNESCO World Heritage Sites in the country.  

"Chaco Canyon is a sacred place that holds deep meaning for the Indigenous peoples whose ancestors lived, worked, and thrived in that high desert community," Interior Secretary Deb Haaland said in a statement. "Now is the time to consider more enduring protections for the living landscape that is Chaco, so that we can pass on this rich cultural legacy to future generations." 
Haaland, the first Native American Secretary of the Interior, is from New Mexico. Haaland is a member of the Laguna Pueblo tribe.  
Biden announced the action as he hosts a tribal nations summit meeting at the White House on Monday. The Biden administration's proposed drilling ban underscores key parts of the president's climate agenda, including environmental justice. 
"These efforts, to use the word my dad would use so much, is a matter of dignity," Biden said Monday. "That's the foundation of our nation to nation partnership." 
In addition, Biden announced his administration would work with tribes to "comprehensively incorporate tribal ecological knowledge" into the federal government's approach to combating climate change. Biden said his administration is the first to work with tribes in this way. 
The process to bar new oil and gas drilling on the land will take time; the Bureau of Land Management said it plans to soon announce a notice in the Federal Register to kick off a two-year segregation of the federal lands around Chaco Canyon. During this time, the bureau will conduct environmental analysis while it also seeks public comment on the oil and gas ban. 
Separately, the State of New Mexico Land Office has also put a ban on new state mineral leases within 10 miles of the historical park. Officials said the new federal proposal won't apply to individual Indian allotments or to minerals within the area owned by private, state and tribal entities.

"Today's announcement has been years in the making," said BLM Director Tracy Stone-Manning. "We look forward to kicking off a broader regional conversation with the many people who care deeply about the Greater Chaco landscape on how we can best manage the cultural and natural values unique to this special place." 
Native American tribes in New Mexico and Arizona have been raising concerns about oil and gas development in the area that pose a threat cultural sites and sacred lands near Chaco Canyon. But the move is expected to draw complaints from the oil and gas industry. New Mexico is an oil and gas-rich state, especially the Permian Basin in the southeastern part of the state.  
Biden's action on Chaco Canyon comes after the president also restored protections for the Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante monuments in Utah -- national monuments with historic significance to Native American tribes. Still, other tribes in the Midwest have sharply criticized the Biden White House for not stopping the Line 3 pipeline, which would carry tar sands oil from Canada and pass through tribal land in Minnesota.
While Biden and Interior are moving to protect this site, there are still larger questions about the administration's strategy around oil and gas drilling. The Interior Department has been working on a major report assessing the federal government's oil and gas leasing program for months. Initially due out in the summer, there's still little sign of when the report will drop -- to the consternation of members of Congress.
This story has been updated with additional details.

 (CNN)Soon after Missouri Rep. Cori Bush accused Sen. Joe Manchin of espousing an "anti-Black, anti-child, anti-woman and anti-immigrant" position, another House progressive was on national TV with a sharply different message. 
Manchin, in fact, is not a racist, California Rep. Ro Khanna asserted. 
The next day, Texas Rep. Henry Cuellar, a Blue Dog Democrat, invited Khanna along with a handful of other House members to make the short trek across the Capitol and meet with Manchin in the Senate cloakroom. Manchin was aware of Khanna's remarks and thanked him, according to multiple sources familiar with the matter. 
The episode illustrated the efforts by a group of House and Senate progressives to work behind the scenes to build goodwill with the Senate's most unpredictable moderate, who has the power to sink President Joe Biden's expansive agenda -- and many progressive priorities -- simply by pointing his thumb down. Manchin has made clear he won't be jammed, even holding a press conference last week balking at the demands made by progressives that he publicly endorse Biden's $1.75 trillion framework. 
In private, Manchin has had cordial conversations with the House's progressive caucus chair, Rep. Pramila Jayapal of Washington state, but he has also informed her that she doesn't have leverage over him, according to sources familiar with the matter. And he's shown little willingness to bend as he's been grilled by Senate progressives, such as New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, in tense discussions over including paid family leave in the larger plan, which he continues to oppose, according to people who have spoken with him. 
After months of intense scrutiny on his positions, Manchin now stands poised to have the final word on Biden's agenda, assuming House Democratic leaders can muscle through their version of the Build Back Better plan, which stands at roughly $1.9 trillion, as soon as next week.  
Then the focus will shift squarely to what Manchin will accept, an open question as he has for months called on his party to hit the brakes. He raised concerns that a multi-trillion bill could add to the country's inflation woes, pushed back on provisions to reduce methane emissions, opposed a Medicare expansion, demanded changes to the tax provisions in the House proposal and resisted measures aimed at helping undocumented immigrants. 
And if he cuts a deal, House progressives almost certainly will be forced to swallow it. 
So rather than publicly berating him and demanding he agree to their priorities, many Democrats say the way to win him over is to give him space, avoid the personal attacks, engage in an open dialogue with him and let him ultimately come to a conclusion that passing the bill is crucial not just for the President's political future but his deep-red state as well.  
"I have always had a cordial relationship with Sen. Manchin and just wanted to keep the dialogue open so he doesn't feel in any way disrespected," Khanna told CNN. "So he knows there is an exchange of ideas. And I think that will make it marginally easier for the White House to build consensus."
Added Sen. Tom Carper of Delaware, a more centrist Democrat who has been in talks with Manchin over the environmental proposals: "One of the early lessons I've learned in politics, all politics is local. And there's so much at stake here for West Virginia."   
In private, Speaker Nancy Pelosi has counseled her House colleagues not to insult Manchin, Democrats say. And she has spoken positively about her relationship with the West Virginia Democrat, who gave her a statue of a coal miner this year in a gesture toward their efforts to help those workers with their pension problems, according to a person who heard her remarks.
While Democrats are uncertain where Manchin will come down, they are far more reassured that Arizona Sen. Kyrsten Sinema -- the other leading moderate -- will ultimately back the sweeping expansion of the social safety net. Many of Sinema's concerns -- namely opposing raising corporate and individual tax rates and slicing down the initial $3.5 trillion price tag -- have already been addressed.  
A closed-door meeting of House and Senate Democrats late last month in the Senate, between Jayapal, Colorado Rep. Joe Neguse along with Sen. Brian Schatz of Hawaii, went a long way toward reassuring progressives that Sinema will ultimately vote for the package, according to multiple Democrats.
Democrats say that the distrust between the two wings -- which stalled action on the President's agenda for months -- is slowly starting to ease. Indeed, it was a late-night deal-making session between a handful of House moderates and progressives that paved the way for passage of the $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill that Biden plans to sign into law Monday. 
"The last few weeks have been eventful," said Neguse, a progressive Democrat who also attended the meeting with Manchin along with Khanna, Cuellar and two centrist House Democrats, and has spoken repeatedly with Sinema as well.
"It's important to de-escalate the situation," another Democrat said, referring to progressives' war of words with Manchin. 
A late-night deal and Biden's warning 
To get Manchin ultimately on board, Democrats are mostly leaving it up to Biden, who has been in direct conversations with the senator for months. And they say the President should use the same kind of persuasiveness he employed in getting liberals to support final passage of the infrastructure bill, which they had held up for more than a month as they demanded the larger proposal be approved at the same time. 
As he addressed the Congressional Progressive Caucus on speakerphone last Friday night and urged the House liberals to separate the two bills and support the infrastructure package, Biden urged the caucus to trust his ability to deliver the needed 50 Democratic votes in the Senate -- including Manchin's -- to get the Build Back Better plan through. 
And at one point, the President suggested that if they couldn't trust him and wouldn't get behind the infrastructure bill last Friday, then they should just abandon the entire agenda, according to four sources familiar with his remarks. 
"That really woke people up," one source said. 
Biden faced a flurry of questions from a range of progressives, from Bush to Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Texas, but he sought to reassure all of them that the moderates in both chambers would ultimately fall in line. 
Asked about the President's pitch after the late-night Friday vote, Jayapal told CNN that if the progressives didn't back the infrastructure bill, the entire agenda may have collapsed. 
"The Build Back Better Act would have also probably gone down," said Jayapal, who initially told the President that evening she wasn't ready to support the infrastructure bill on its own. "So it was really like: How it was really how do we turn this into a win?"
The President's desire to get the infrastructure bill to his desk immediately was a message that was also delivered in a closed-door leadership meeting earlier in Pelosi's office, multiple sources said. South Carolina Rep. Jim Clyburn, the House majority whip, told his colleagues about the difficult political position that Biden was in and that he "needs a victory" and the House wouldn't leave without giving him one, according to sources familiar with the matter. 
And to get there, they needed to bridge the trust deficit between moderates -- who refused to back the $1.9 trillion bill without estimates from the Congressional Budget Office -- and progressives, who wouldn't support the infrastructure bill without assurances from moderates that they'd back the larger plan. 
After a suggestion made by Rep. Ted Lieu of California that a statement be drafted from moderates laying out some assurances, New York Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, a member of the party leadership, and New Jersey Rep. Donald Norcross, a vice chair of the progressive caucus, began trying to piece together a statement with the moderates, led by Rep. Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey. 
After back-and-forth within the progressive caucus, Neguse along with progressive Reps. Jimmy Gomez of California, Mark Pocan of Wisconsin and Mondaire Jones of New York went to hash out a deal with moderate Democrats in the Longworth office of another Blue Dog Democrat, Florida Rep. Stephanie Murphy.
After hours of negotiating, it ultimately came down to Jayapal and Gottheimer. The two agreed to a deal initially floated by the Congressional Black Caucus: there would be two votes that night: One to pass the infrastructure bill, which moderates had been demanding, and the other to approve the rule governing floor debate for the $1.9 trillion bill, a key progressive demand. But the $1.9 trillion plan would not get a final vote until after the CBO reported on its costs.
Yet progressives wanted the vote on the rule first, not trusting the moderates to support the procedural vote once the infrastructure bill was passed. But moderates were fearful that even more Republicans would defect on the infrastructure bill if the rule on the social safety net package were approved first. 
Ultimately, the moderates' request won out -- but not before Jayapal looked each of the four moderates in the eyes to get their commitments that they would stick to their statement that they would back the Build Back Better bill by next week assuming the CBO provides "fiscal information" reassuring them that its costs would be completely offset.
Asked if he trusted the moderates, Jones paused for several seconds and sighed then said: "When we sign statements like that, and when we do press conferences together to that effect, then people are deserving of our trust."
With the House on the cusp of approving the $1.9 trillion bill, Democrats say Biden will have to employ similar tactics with Manchin. And they say that recent comments that Manchin has made that he plans to work with the President, gives them some hope.
"He wants to move forward, and we owe it to the President to move forward," Manchin told CNN recently.
CNN's Morgan Rimmer contributed to this report.
Washington (CNN)Here is a broad-strokes timeline of then-President Donald Trump's activities around the time he first tested positive for Covid-19. According to excerpts from a forthcoming book by Trump's former chief of staff Mark Meadows as reported by The Guardian, this was three days ahead of Trump's first 2020 presidential debate with Joe Biden.

Friday, Sept. 25 -- Day before first positive test
President Trump awoke in Florida and zig-zagged along the East Coast for a variety of events. He held a Latinos for Trump rally in Doral, Florida; an official event in Atlanta; a fundraiser in Washington; and a rally in Virginia.
 
Saturday, Sept. 26 -- Day of first positive test, per Meadows
Trump spent much of Saturday with the woman he nominated to replace Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the Supreme Court: Amy Coney Barrett. She and her family -- including her husband and seven children -- were all on hand at the White House, and met with Trump, the first lady and the Pences in the Oval Office. 
Later, Trump attended a rally in Pennsylvania.
According to Meadows, Trump tested positive before traveling to the rally in Pennsylvania and then subsequently testing negative.
 
Sunday, Sept. 27 -- Golf, debate prep, press conference
Two days ahead of the first presidential debate, Trump spent at least some of Sunday in prep sessions with his team. He also visited his golf course and convened a press conference before holding a reception for Gold Star families at the White House.
 
Monday, Sept. 28 -- At the White House
The President spent Monday at the White House, partly in preparation for the next day's debate. He held events outdoors at the White House, one on trade and one on a new Covid-19 testing strategy.
 
Tuesday, Sept. 29 -- Debate day
Trump remained out of sight at the White House until departing for the first presidential debate in Cleveland.
 
Wednesday, Sept. 30 -- Visit to Minnesota
The President and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin met in the Oval Office Wednesday morning. Later, Trump traveled to Minnesota for a fundraiser and campaign rally. On the way home, officials said Hope Hicks, one of Trump's closest aides, began displaying symptoms and isolated in a separate cabin. 

Thursday, Oct. 1 -- Fundraisers and testing
Officials at the White House were aware that Hicks had tested positive for Covid-19, though it's not clear exactly when her results came back. Still, Trump went ahead with his schedule, including a fundraiser in New Jersey. 
Sometime after returning from Bedminster, Trump receives a preliminary positive rapid test result. 
"He's tested regularly and the first positive test he received was after his return from Bedminster," White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters.
 
Friday, Oct 2 -- Walter Reed
Trump is hospitalized at Walter Reed.

 (CNN)The Department of the Interior on Friday released a long-awaited review of oil and gas drilling on federal lands and oceans that recommends an increase in leasing fees and consideration of environmental concerns in leasing decisions. But the report largely sidesteps climate change issues, and does not recommend a halt to new oil and gas leasing -- a promise President Joe Biden campaigned on.
The report, which Biden commissioned last January, outlines a series of primarily fiscal reforms for the federal oil and gas program, which Interior said currently "fails to provide a fair return to taxpayers, even before factoring in the resulting climate-related costs that must be borne by taxpayers."
Environmental groups expressed concerns about the review and called for more urgent action to be taken to address the climate crisis.
"These trivial changes are nearly meaningless in the midst of this climate emergency, and they break Biden's campaign promise to stop new oil and gas leasing on public lands," said Randi Spivak, public lands director at the Center for Biological Diversity. "Greenlighting more fossil fuel extraction, then pretending it's OK by nudging up royalty rates, is like rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic. There's no time left for baby steps that let the fossil-fuel industry wreak even greater havoc on the Earth."
"We urge the Biden administration to build on this report by phasing out new oil and gas leasing altogether," said Athan Manuel, director of the Sierra Club's Lands Protection Program, "and we call on Congress to include these reforms in the final Build Back Better Act to ensure that our public lands are part of the climate solution, instead of enriching oil company CEOs at the public's expense."
The report comes as the Biden administration has faced criticism from some environmental advocates for moving forward with reopening millions of acres in the Gulf of Mexico to auction for drilling. The auction is at odds with Biden's climate agenda -- the President has promised to slash greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2030 -- and environmental advocates said it could set US climate goals back for years.
The administration tried in its first days in office to put a stop to new oil and gas drilling. Biden's January order paused new leases and directed the Interior Department to launch a comprehensive review of existing programs related to fossil fuel development. But a lawsuit filed in March on behalf of 13 states led to a judgment that blocked Biden's pause, and the administration is appealing that decision.
"The Interior Department has an obligation to responsibly manage our public lands and waters -- providing a fair return to the taxpayer and mitigating worsening climate impacts -- while staying steadfast in the pursuit of environmental justice," Interior Secretary Deb Haaland said in a statement Friday. "This review outlines significant deficiencies in the federal oil and gas programs, and identifies important and urgent fiscal and programmatic reforms that will benefit the American people."
The review notes that the federal oil and gas program's fiscal components are "particularly outdated, with royalty rates that have not been raised for 100 years."
"Consideration should be given to raising royalty rates and, to the extent allowed by statute, to increasing the current minimum levels for bids, rents, royalties, and bonds," the report states.
The review also encourages congressional action "on pending legislation to provide fundamental reforms to the onshore and offshore oil and gas programs."
While the leasing program review outlines a "set of important and long overdue reforms," House Natural Resources Chair Raúl Grijalva underscored the need for more permanent solutions.
"The administration needs to manage public lands and waters consistent with its climate commitments, and today's report does not offer a plan to do that," Grijalva said in a statement. "What it does offer is a set of important and long overdue reforms to the federal fossil fuel leasing program, which until now has been a public subsidy for oil and gas drilling and extraction."
"We need new industry financial requirements and greater public transparency around leasing, and the administration should start making these welcome changes as soon as possible," the Arizona Democrat added. 
"Congress needs to end wasteful subsidies and advance leasing reform bills while that's happening because every American sees climate change all around them, and we all know that impermanent policy changes at the margins won't reduce emissions enough to protect our quality of life."
Friday's report also follows Biden's announcement earlier this week to release emergency oil reserves to combat high energy prices ahead of the busy holiday travel season. 
The administration could have chosen to increase domestic oil production, but the White House has been wary of the optics of the President and his aides pushing for more drilling at home on the heels of the major UN climate summit COP26, where Biden promised that the US would "lead by example" on clean energy initiatives.
This story has been updated with more details and background.

 (CNN)Former President Donald Trump privately criticized on Monday night the 13 Republicans who voted to pass the $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill, questioning why they would give President Joe Biden a win when he's struggling in the polls, according to a GOP source.
His comments came a day after he publicly lambasted the House and Senate Republicans who voted for the legislation, including Senate GOP Leader Mitch McConnell.
"Very sad that the RINOs in the House and Senate gave Biden and Democrats a victory on the "Non-Infrastructure" Bill," said Trump in a statement on Sunday. "All Republicans who voted for Democrat longevity should be ashamed of themselves, in particular Mitch McConnell, for granting a two month stay which allowed the Democrats time to work things out at our Country's, and the Republican Party's, expense!"
Some conservative House Republicans have also discussed retaliating against their colleagues by booting them from their committee spots, although that effort faces little chance of succeeding. The 13 House Republicans who voted for the legislation last week are: Nebraska Rep. Don Bacon; Pennsylvania Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick; New York Reps. Andrew Gabarino, John Katko, Nicole Malliotakis and Tom Reed; Ohio Rep. Anthony Gonzalez, Illinois Rep. Adam Kinzinger, West Virginia Rep. David McKinley; New Jersey Reps. Chris Smith and Jeff Van Drew; Michigan Rep. Fred Upton and Alaska Rep. Don Young.
The blowback on the right has been intense. Upton said on Monday that he received a threatening voicemail after voting for the bill. On CNN's "AC360", Upton shared a message from a caller who said, "I hope you die. I hope everybody in your f**king family dies."
Several Republican sources said that only a handful of the most conservative members are pushing to strip the members from their committee assignments. Even so, there has been a lot of criticism directed toward Katko, the ranking Republican on the House Homeland Security Committee. 
The New York congressman voted for the infrastructure bill early during Friday night's roll-call vote, before Democrats reached 218 votes, while some others waited until the Democrats reached the threshold before casting their affirmative votes.
"In my view, there's a difference between the ones who broke their word to the whip and voted 'yes' before they reached 218 and those that kept their word and waited," one House Republican member said. "Katko is the worst offender." 
Some conservatives have publicly taken aim at Katko, a moderate Republican who was one of the 10 who voted to impeach Trump over inciting the January 6 insurrection.
Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz of Florida singled out several of Katko's votes and said in a tweet: "He is the GOP lead on the Homeland Security Committee, with support from 'Leadership.'"
House GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy has helped fundraise for Katko and even urged Trump not endorse a primary challenger to the New Yorker.
A Katko spokesperson could not be immediately reached for comment on the criticism.

Washington (CNN)House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy gave the longest House floor speech in US history on Thursday night and Friday morning -- an 8-hour, 32-minute address that delayed the passage of a $1.9 trillion Democratic bill to expand the social safety net and fight the climate crisis.  
The House passed the bill on Friday morning. It now awaits consideration in the Senate. 
McCarthy's speech contained far too many claims for us to try to check all of them; he talked about everything from the war in Afghanistan to the menu at McDonald's. But here is a look at some of the claims that were inaccurate or lacking key context. 
Democrats and Iron Dome funding 
McCarthy mentioned Israel's Iron Dome aerial defense system, then told a Democrat that "your party actually defunded that." 
Facts First: This is false. Democrats did not defund Iron Dome; in September, the Democratic-controlled House approved $1 billion in funding for Iron Dome in an overwhelming and bipartisan 420-9 vote. (Among Democrats, the vote was 210 in favor, 8 opposed, 2 voting "present.") The Democratic-controlled Senate is also planning to approve the Iron Dome funding. In October, a Democratic effort to get the Senate to rapidly approve the funding was derailed by a Republican senator, Rand Paul of Kentucky, who objected to how the US government planned to pay for this spending. 
Because of opposition from some lawmakers on the left of the Democratic caucus, House Democrats took the Iron Dome funding package out of a September bill that needed to pass to prevent a government shutdown. But Democrats then passed the Iron Dome funding in a separate bill the same week. That just does not qualify as "defunding." 
"I understand that we are in a particularly partisan season but that's not an accurate or fair characterization" by McCarthy, said Bradley Bowman, a former adviser to Republican senators who is now senior director of the Center on Military and Political Power at the pro-Israel Foundation for Defense of Democracies. Bowman criticized the stances of the left-wing Democrats who opposed the funding, but he emphasized that "their views are nowhere near a controlling majority in the House of Representatives or the Democratic party." 
McCarthy's office didn't respond to our request for comment for this article. 
Democrats and energy   
Blaming Democrats for high gas prices, McCarthy claimed that they "banned oil and gas." Moments later, he narrowed his claim to make it, "They banned drilling for oil and gas." 
Facts First: Neither of these claims is true. It's obviously not true that Democrats completely banned oil and gas. And the narrower claim, that Democrats "banned drilling for oil and gas," would have been a major exaggeration even in the weeks after Biden signed a January executive order to put a pause on new oil and gas leases (not to ban all oil and gas activity) on public lands and offshore waters (not on all land in the country). The claim is even less correct now:  
Biden's January executive order directed the Secretary of the Interior to pause new oil and natural gas leases on public lands and offshore waters, "to the extent consistent with applicable law," until the completion of a review of federal leasing policy. As the Interior Department emphasized at the time, this order did not affect existing oil and gas leases; US oil and gas drilling was never banned and never stopped. (The Energy Information Administration has predicted that US production of natural gas for 2021 will set a new record.) 
Then, in June, a federal court issued a preliminary injunction blocking the Biden moratorium on new leases. While the administration has appealed the decision, it has said its hands are tied for now -- and on Wednesday, it opened 80.9 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico to auction for drilling, proceeding with a move initially planned by the Trump administration. (The auction resulted in 1.7 million of the 80.9 million acres actually being leased.) 
We won't go deep here on McCarthy's effort to blame Biden for high gas prices. As we've written before, prices at the pumps are driven by a complex array of global economic factors, not by the policies of any single president. 
Pipelines and jobs   
McCarthy repeatedly attacked Biden for his January decision to revoke the permit for the Keystone XL pipeline that would have carried oil from Canada into the US. (The company behind the pipeline then announced in June that it was terminating the project.)  
At one point, McCarthy said that Biden's Keystone decision resulted in "thousands" of blue-collar workers losing their jobs. But at another point, he claimed that there are "more than one million people who lost their job after President Biden was sworn in because he shut down a pipeline" -- here McCarthy didn't name the pipeline -- while "allowing" Russia to increase production. 
Facts First: McCarthy's "more than one million people" claim is false. There is simply no Biden pipeline decision that resulted in a million job losses; construction of the Keystone XL pipeline was expected to involve thousands of people in 2021, not even close to one million. (Also, overall job growth under Biden has averaged more than 600,000 jobs per month.) 
It's not clear what McCarthy was even talking about here, and McCarthy's office didn't respond to a request for an explanation, but we can still safely say the claim is inaccurate. 
It's possible that McCarthy was referring to a 2020 analysis that was done for the American Petroleum Institute, which represents the interests of oil and gas companies. The analysis projected about a million job losses by 2022 if the government halted not only new oil and gas leases on federal lands and offshore waters but also new oil and gas development on lands and waters that had already been leased. 
This analysis doesn't tell us what happened in 2021 -- Biden never actually put forward a ban on development -- and, again, it was not an analysis about the impact of a pipeline shutdown. 
Before Biden revoked the permit for Keystone XL, the company behind the project announced in late 2020 that it anticipated that the pipeline would employ "more than 11,000 Americans in 2021," mostly in construction. It's not clear how many of these 11,000 hypothetical people actually lost a job because of Biden's 2021 cancellation of the permit rather than simply losing the opportunity to work on that particular project. In addition, this was not long-term employment. Before its cancellation, Keystone XL was expected to create just dozens of permanent positions. 
Biden and the FBI 
McCarthy said "Biden used the FBI to target parents as domestic terrorists. Can you imagine that? To use your own FBI. To go after parents, calling them domestic terrorists. Without any evidence. Simply in aiming to silence their First Amendment rights. A whistleblower just confirmed it."  
Facts First: At very least, this claim is missing key context. McCarthy was likely referring to the news that the FBI's counterterrorism division had been involved in creating an internal "threat tag," the phrase "EDUOFFICIALS," to help FBI employees keep track of investigations and assessments related to threats of violence against school board officials, teachers and staff.  But McCarthy didn't provide even minimal specifics, much less mention that the internal tag is intended as an organizing method for cases related to people who have issued threats. And it was the National School Boards Association, not the Biden administration, that invoked "domestic terrorism" in the context of threats against education officials. 
House Republicans have publicized an October joint memo from the FBI's counterterrorism division and criminal investigative division -- Republicans said it was received from a "whistleblower" -- that explained the creation of the new threat tag. But nothing in the memo is evidence that any parent is being treated as a domestic terrorist simply for, say, criticizing school policy. (It's certainly possible that the FBI will target some parent without good evidence; the "whistleblower" just did not provide evidence that this is currently happening.) 
In a statement emailed to CNN, the FBI said that "a tag is merely a statistical tool to track information for review and reporting," that tags are used to group various kinds of related cases, that the counterterrorism division is involved in this issue because it shares responsibility with the criminal investigative division for handling violent threats, and that "the FBI has never been in the business of investigating parents who speak out or policing speech at school board meetings, and we are not going to start now." 
"We are fully committed to preserving and protecting First Amendment rights, including freedom of speech," the FBI said. "The FBI's focus is on violence and threats of violence that potentially violate federal law." 
This controversy erupted in September, when the National School Boards Associations sent a letter to Biden in which it said that "acts of malice, violence, and threats against public school officials" could be classified as "the equivalent to a form of domestic terrorism and hate crimes" and asked for a federal review that would include a look at whether there were "appropriate enforceable actions against these crimes" under various laws, including "the PATRIOT Act in regards to domestic terrorism." (The NSBA board has since apologized for language in the letter.) 
A subsequent public statement from the Department of Justice vowing to take action on threats against educators was also criticized by many Republicans as evidence of federal overreach. But that statement, unlike the NSBA letter, did not mention domestic terrorism. Republicans have also noted that the NSBA was in communication with White House officials before sending the letter to Biden, but they haven't shown any indication to date that the White House was responsible for the NSBA's inclusion of the phrase "domestic terrorism" or the reference to the Patriot Act. 
Biden and separated families
McCarthy criticized the Biden administration for "considering paying illegal immigrants $450,000 per family." He said, "You're gonna reward people that came here illegally with $450,000 from hardworking taxpayer Americans."
Facts First: The Biden administration is not considering $450,000 payments to every undocumented family or a large percentage of undocumented families, as McCarthy's broad wording would likely lead some listeners to believe. Rather, in response to a series of lawsuits against the government -- not as part of the bill the House passed -- the Biden administration is considering compensation payments, of a size that is not publicly known, to families who were separated at the US-Mexico border under the Trump administration's controversial and ultimately abandoned "zero tolerance" policy. 
It is not clear how many people might be eligible for compensation, but the number is certainly a small fraction of the total US undocumented population that has been estimated at around 11 million. More than 3,000 children were separated from their families under the Trump policy. 
McCarthy didn't invent the $450,000 figure; the Wall Street Journal reported in late October that the Biden administration was considering payments of around $450,000 per person to families that were separated. However, the Biden administration has publicly contested the figure, saying it is indeed considering a financial settlement but that the $450,000 figure is too high. 
Biden said in early November: "If in fact, because of the outrageous behavior of the last administration, you were coming across the border, whether it was legal or illegal, and you lost your child -- you lost your child -- it's gone -- you deserve some kind of compensation, no matter what the circumstance. What that will be, I have no idea. I have no idea."

 (CNN)The US State Department is offering up to $10 million for information leading to the identification or location of senior members of a Russian-speaking ransomware gang that forced major US fuel operator Colonial Pipeline to shut down in May.
The announcement Thursday from State Department spokesperson Ned Price also included an offer of $5 million for information leading to the arrest or conviction of anyone who conspires to participate in a hack involving so-called DarkSide ransomware, which was used in the Colonial Pipeline incident.
It's the latest effort by the Biden administration to put pressure on cybercriminals that have extorted millions of dollars from US companies and threatened critical infrastructure. President Joe Biden in June appealed to Russian President Vladimir Putin to take action against ransomware groups operating from Russia, but it remains to be seen if that will happen.
It's not the first time the State Department has offered big money to try to catch foreign hackers.
Ahead of the 2020 election, the department said it would pay up to $10 million for information on the identity or location of anyone using "certain illegal cyber activities" to interfere with the vote at the behest of a foreign government.
"We need to use all the tools we have, and this is a good and hopefully effective one," Christopher Painter, a former top State Department cybersecurity envoy, told CNN.
The Colonial Pipeline incident shut down fuel deliveries to the East Coast of the US for days, prompting long lines at gas pumps in multiple states. It also put ransomware higher on the national security agency for the Biden administration, which since the incident has issued multiple cybersecurity policy directives.
The pipeline company, which delivers an estimated 45% of fuel consumed on the East Coast, paid the hackers $4.4 million to unlock the computers. The Justice Department was able to recover $2.3 million of that money by seizing cryptocurrency assets.
As the Biden administration pressures Russia to curb cybercriminal activity, US law enforcement and their international partners are pursuing suspects outside of Russia.
A 38-year-old Russian man accused of being part of a cybercrime ring that infected US computers with ransomware was extradited from the South Korea to the US last month. He faces computer fraud charges in a federal court in Ohio.
US intelligence agencies have also had a role in the crackdown.
US Cyber Command head and director of the National Security Agency Gen. Paul Nakasone said Wednesday that the US had "conducted a surge" over the past three months to address the threat of ransomware. Nakasone said the US government had been focusing on the sources of funding for ransomware operatives.
Russian government responses are harder to measure.
Chris Inglis, the US National Cyber Director, told lawmakers on Wednesday that the US had seen a "discernible decrease" in Russia-based hacks against US organizations since the Biden-Putin summit, but that it was "too soon to tell" if that lull in some ransomware activity was "because of the material efforts undertaken by the Russians or the Russian leadership."

 (CNN)Michigan state Sen. Tom Barrett on Monday announced his campaign for the US House, a bid that could see him potentially challenge Democratic Rep. Elissa Slotkin. 
The Michigan Republican vowed in a Facebook video announcing his campaign to push back against the Biden administration's federal vaccine mandate. 
"I've spent my entire career fighting for freedom in the Army and as a state legislator, yet Joe Biden wants to discard me because I oppose his coercive forced vaccination mandate," he said. "I believe individuals should be able to freely give their consent, without fear of retaliation or coercion before receiving the Covid vaccine." 
Michigan's new congressional map has not yet been finalized by the state's redistricting commission. 
Slotkin, who served three tours in Iraq alongside the US military as a CIA analyst before being elected to Congress to represent Michigan's 8th Congressional District, has held the seat since 2019. The district backed former President Donald Trump in 2016 and 2020. Slotkin won reelection last year by 3.6 points. 
In late August, the Pentagon mandated that US military service members get fully vaccinated against Covid-19. President Joe Biden announced vaccine rules in September requiring all federal contractors to be vaccinated and private businesses with 100 or more employees to vaccinate their workforce or test employees weekly. Those rules take effect in January. Republicans have fought the mandates in courts across the nation, and used the controversy as a means to energize their base.
Barrett, an Army veteran, spoke about serving for 21 years, including as a helicopter pilot in combat zones, in his announcement video. He cited a "collapse of leadership in the White House" in relation to Biden's decision to withdraw from Afghanistan as one of his reasons for running. 
Barrett also said he is running to put "parents back in charge of their children's education," which was key Republican message during the recent gubernatorial race in Virginia in which the GOP prevailed.
Barrett currently represents Michigan's 24th district in the state Senate. He serves as chair of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and as a member of the committees on Appropriations; Energy and Technology; Families, Seniors, and Veterans; Insurance and Banking; and Judiciary and Public Safety, according to his website. He previously served two terms as a state representative.

 (CNN)Vice President Kamala Harris said Thursday she does not feel misused or underused in her role as vice president, following CNN reporting that many in the vice president's circle believe she is being sidelined and that key West Wing aides are exasperated by what they see as entrenched dysfunction and lack of focus from Harris and her staff. 
"We're getting things done, and we're doing it together," Harris told ABC in an interview that aired on "Good Morning America."
Harris pointed to the President signing one of his biggest legislative victories -- the bipartisan infrastructure package -- into law on Monday, saying: "This was a good week."
"I am very, very excited about the work that we have accomplished. But I am also absolutely, absolutely clear-eyed that there is a lot more to do and we're going to get it done," Harris said. 
Earlier this week, several top White House officials defended Harris, including press secretary Jen Psaki, who described the vice president as a "key partner" to the President. 
CNN reported on Sunday that key West Wing aides have largely thrown up their hands at Harris and her staff -- deciding there simply isn't time to deal with them right now as Biden faces urgent legislative and political concerns. At the same time, many in the vice president's circle are fuming that Harris is not being adequately prepared or positioned in her role, and the vice president herself has told several confidants she feels constrained in what she's able to do politically.
Eleni Kounalakis, the lieutenant governor of California and a longtime friend of Harris, told CNN: "It is natural that those of us who know her know how much more helpful she can be than she is currently being asked to be. That's where the frustration is coming from."
In the ABC interview on Thursday, Harris did not say whether Biden had told her if he was planning on running for reelection, and said she and the President were "absolutely not" discussing 2024 yet. 
Harris also dismissed the President's low approval ratings, saying: "Polls, they go up, they go down. But I think what is most important is that we remain consistent with what we need to do to deal with the issues that we're presented with."
Harris also called dealing with record inflation "one of the highest priorities" for herself and Biden.
"It's real and it's rough," she said, citing rising prices for groceries and gas. She highlighted actions the administration has been taking to try to ease supply chain issues and lower costs for American families. 
Biden announced last month the Port of Los Angeles would move to 24/7 service, bringing it into line with operations at the Port of Long Beach, which was already working on a 24/7 schedule. Those two ports handle 40% of container traffic in the US. The administration has also taken other actions to attempt to alleviate issues at the nation's ports, waterways and freight networks.
"We're seeing great results," Harris said.
In addition to the short-term actions, Harris said in the long term, the administration is working to bring down the cost of living. She said the new bipartisan infrastructure law as well as the second part of Biden's economic agenda -- a sweeping package to expand the nation's social safety net -- would help achieve that goal.

 (CNN)US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry said Tuesday there is "something different" happening at the COP26 climate summit taking place in Glasgow, Scotland, pointing to a level of engagement by world leaders and a sense of urgency that he hasn't seen at previous United Nations climate summits. 
"There is something bigger, more engaged, more urgent in what is happening here than I have seen in at any other COP, and I believe we are going to come up with record levels of ambition," Kerry told CNN's Christiane Amanpour. The gathering in Glasgow is the 26th annual conference of parties (COP) brought together by the United Nations to address climate change. 
Kerry said he believes it is possible to reach the goal that world leaders agreed to at COP21 in 2015 -- also known as the Paris Agreement -- of holding global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius, and if possible, 1.5 degrees Celsius.
"I believe that if people do what they've laid out as their specific plans, yes," Kerry told Amanpour when asked if he still thought 1.5 degrees Celsius was still an achievable target. 
The former secretary of state continued: "Is it hard? You're right, it's damn hard. It's very hard, but it is better to push for that. It's better to make that your target."
The prevailing scientific consensus is that temperatures can rise 1.5 degrees Celsius over pre-industrial levels before the most catastrophic changes -- increasingly devastating fires, floods and droughts -- begin to occur.
But significant questions remain about whether some of the world's largest emitters of greenhouse gases, including China and India, will get on board. Chinese President Xi Jinping is not attending COP26 in person. 
Kerry said US President Joe Biden reached out to the Chinese President and had a "very good call" in which both leaders agreed they wanted to meet and "move forward on climate." 
He noted that, over the last nine months, countries representing 65% of the world's GDP have committed to working toward the 1.5 degrees Celsius target. But he said it was essential that the remaining 35% also make the pledge.
"We have to bring those other countries to the table. We have to raise ambition," Kerry said. "But developing countries, even some big ones like India, can't do this on their own."
Kerry touted the agreement by more than 100 world leaders to end deforestation by 2030, which was announced on Tuesday at COP26, as well as a new US commitment to conserving global forests. He said there would also be some "big finance announcements" in the coming days that the US has been working on.
Biden announced the plan to conserve global forests earlier on Tuesday, saying that conserving forests and other critical ecosystems is "an indispensable piece of keeping our climate goals within reach."
The plan focuses on incentivizing forest and ecosystem conservation and forest landscape restoration, catalyzing private sector action to conserve critical carbon sinks, building long-term capacity and enhancing accountability and increasing ambition for climate and conservation action, according to the White House. 
Ahead of the summit, Kerry and Biden climate adviser Gina McCarthy released a five-prong plan for the US to combat climate change: achieve Biden's goal of 100% clean electricity by 2035, transition American cars to electricity, buildings and industries away from burning fuel and toward electricity, help Americans transition to energy-efficient appliances and homes, reduce methane emissions with new rules and invest in carbon removal.

 (CNN)A suspected Chinese hacking campaign has breached four more US defense and technology companies in the last month, and hundreds more US organizations are running the type of vulnerable software that the attackers have exploited, according to research shared with CNN.
The apparent espionage activity, which the National Security Agency helped investigate when it emerged in recent months, is more extensive than previously known and has seen the hackers steal passwords from targeted organizations with a goal of intercepting sensitive communications. 
The cybersecurity researchers in November publicly confirmed just one victimized US organization, CNN reported then, but they now say the number is at least five and could continue to grow.
Globally, at least 13 organizations total in sectors such as defense, health care, energy and transportation are now confirmed to have been breached, cybersecurity firm Palo Alto Networks warned in a report published Thursday. 
Palo Alto Networks identified about 600 cases in the US of systems running a type of vulnerable software that the hackers have exploited. That includes installations at 23 universities, 14 state or local governments and 10 health care organizations, the researchers said. 
It's the type of digital spying that the US government has for years tried to expose before it compromises sensitive data related to national security or trade secrets.
The hacking effort shares similarities with the techniques of a group Microsoft has identified as operating in China, Palo Alto Networks said. 
The ultimate impact of the computer intrusions is not yet clear because investigations of the breaches are ongoing. But Palo Alto Networks' Unit 42 researchers believe the hackers could be trying to gain long-term access to computer systems in order to siphon off key data from US companies. 
"This adversary has aggressively targeted organizations in the United States and elsewhere in defense, technology and other critical sectors," Ryan Olson, vice president of Palo Alto Networks' Unit 42 division, told CNN.
"While we're still learning more about the impact of these attacks, we urge organizations to quickly patch vulnerable systems and follow recommendations for determining whether they've been compromised," Olson said.
The NSA declined to comment on the new research. The US Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, which has also sought to blunt the impact of the hacking campaign, referred questions to Palo Alto Networks.
The Chinese Embassy in Washington did not respond to a request for comment. 
While Beijing routinely denies conducting hacking operations, cybersecurity has been a regular source of tension in US-China relations for years. 
The Biden administration in July blamed China for different hacking activity that exploited Microsoft email software and, experts say, exposed organizations across the world to follow-on hacks from cybercriminals. 
A senior Biden administration official at the time called it part of "a pattern of irresponsible behavior in cyberspace" from China. Beijing denied involvement. 
The latest suspected Chinese cyberactivity does not appear to risk that level of collateral damage. But it still has the attention of senior US cybersecurity officials, who have worked with the researchers to warn potential victim companies. 
The hackers have in recent weeks shifted from exploiting one popular piece of software to another in a quest to compromise more organizations. Fixes are available for both software products, which are made by the multinational technology firm Zoho. But many of the firms' customers have yet to update their systems, and remain vulnerable. 
If Chinese involvement in the campaign is confirmed, it would add to multiple instances in recent years of alleged Chinese hackers seeking to burrow into the networks of US defense contractors. 
A 2014 Senate investigation found that Chinese government-linked hackers had breached contractors for US Transportation Command 20 times in one year. The command, which is responsible for the global movement of US troops and military equipment, had been aware of only two of those breaches. 

 (CNN)New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy is locked in a closer-than-expected race that remains too close to call as he tries to become the first Democratic governor in more than four decades to win reelection in the Garden State.
Like Virginia -- where Republican nominee Glenn Youngkin won Tuesday night -- New Jersey has trended reliably blue in federal and local contests but has a history of voting in the party out of the White House in its off-year gubernatorial races.  
On top of their loss in Virginia, the close race in the Garden State -- where President Joe Biden also won by double digits in 2020 -- is a warning sign to Democrats looking to maintain their congressional majorities in next year's midterms.  
With 84% of the vote in, Murphy was tied with Republican Jack Ciattarelli. 
Murphy's lead over Ciattarelli in a number of late polls had appeared to be at or near double digits, giving Democrats confidence about the outcome and shifting some focus to the eventual margin -- and what it could portend for next year's midterm elections.
Murphy's campaign acknowledges it's been a tougher evening than they had expected, but they maintain that they will pull it out in the end, believing that the outstanding votes will break for them, a Murphy adviser said.
Like Youngkin, Ciattarelli -- a businessman and former state lawmaker -- kept Trump at arm's length, instead hammering Murphy over taxes and what he argued were the effects of the Democrat's pandemic response on businesses. Democrats are hoping that even a narrow Murphy win will be an affirmation of the party's commitments to mask and vaccine mandates, which Murphy has championed in a state that has suffered about 28,000 Covid-19 deaths.
The final Monmouth University survey of the race showed Murphy with leads ranging from 8 to 14 points, depending on different models of who comes out to vote. Those figures represent a modest narrowing of the race, in which taxes -- an issue that Ciattarelli leads on -- were listed as the top issue. But Murphy's advantage on the question of who voters trust more to handle the pandemic was significantly higher, 45% to 26%, a gap that has stayed mostly consistent since the summer. The Democrat also enjoys a sizable lead on a question that has roiled the Virginia race -- education and schools -- leading Ciattarelli by 15 points.
Registered Democrats outnumber registered Republicans by more than a million in New Jersey, though voters there have shown a willingness to support moderate GOP candidates, like two-term former Govs. Christie Todd Whitman and, before Murphy's 2017 election, Chris Christie. 
Like in Virginia, New Jersey Democrats and the Murphy campaign have consistently tied the Republican nominee to Trump, who remains deeply unpopular in New Jersey. The complicating factor, though, is that Biden's approval in the state has sunk over the past few months. (He was 6 points underwater in the Monmouth poll.) 
Ciattarelli has downplayed Trump-fueled conspiracy theories over election fraud -- at least as it applied to his own prospects. 
"Don't let anybody stay home because they think we can't win or because it's rigged," Ciattarelli said at a campaign event last week. "It's not rigged here in New Jersey. We can win this race."
Ciattarelli did not name Trump, but the remark underscored the headwinds created by the former President's lies about the 2020 election and the awkward dance being attempted by more traditional Republican candidates attempting to keep Trump diehards on board and get them to the polls, without alienating suburban swing voters turned off by Trump's behavior and rhetoric. 
At their second debate, in mid-October, a moderator pressed Ciattarelli over his view of Trump and whether he would accept the former President's support and campaign alongside him. The Republican nominee, who has been critical of Trump but backed him last year, suggested he had no plans to call in the former President, who has not appeared on the trail in New Jersey despite having a home there. 
"I go out there and campaign on my own," Ciattarelli responded. "I'll win my own election."
Murphy, a former Goldman Sachs executive and ambassador to Germany who previously served as the Democratic National Committee's finance chair, has taken the opposite tack, stumping alongside a who's who of national Democratic heavyweights. Biden, former President Barack Obama and independent Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who rallied for the governor at Rutgers University, have all headlined events for him.
Obama, speaking in Newark last month, zeroed in on Ciattarelli for having previously addressed a "Stop the Steal" rally, then later claiming he was unaware of the event's focus.  
"Apparently Phil's opponent says, well, he didn't know it was a rally to overturn the results of the last election. Brother, come on," Obama said. "When you are standing in front of a sign that says 'Stop the Steal,' and there's a guy in the crowd waving a Confederate flag, you know this isn't a neighborhood barbecue."
Ciattarelli's camp, in response, has pointed to his past statements affirming that Biden won the election -- remarks he was attacked over by other Republicans during the gubernatorial primary. 
In a pair of debates, Murphy also hammered Ciattarelli over the Republican's opposition to mask and vaccine mandates, arguing that the measures have been crucial in combating the Delta variant surge that ravaged a number of GOP-led states.
"For folks to ignore that, disregard that (Covid response) playbook, is putting lives needlessly at risk," Murphy said during their second meeting. Ciattarelli's insistence that decisions over masks and vaccines should be a matter of personal choice, he added, "feels like an answer you'd see in a debate in Texas or Florida."
Murphy has also sought to spotlight concerns over the fate of abortion rights, which are under siege in GOP-led states and could be dealt a devastating blow at the Supreme Court, where the constitutional right to an abortion could soon face an existential test. 
Both candidates support abortion rights, a policy position that puts Ciattarelli at odds with the national GOP. But he opposes a state bill, called the Reproductive Freedom Act, that would codify Roe v. Wade and expand access by allowing more providers to perform the procedure.
Passage of the bill, Murphy said in the debate, would be his "number one agenda item" when New Jersey lawmakers reconvene for their next session later this year.
MJ Lee contributed to this report. 
Manchester, New Hampshire (CNN)Sometimes in politics it's not so much what you say, it's where you say it.
Rep. Liz Cheney's intolerance for former President Donald Trump's lies and her fellow Republicans who "aid and abet" him are refrains we've heard from her in committee rooms and congressional hallways.
But that razor-sharp rebuke landed differently when the Wyoming Republican delivered it in the first-in-the-nation primary state of New Hampshire, a testing ground for potential national political candidates and, in this case, for a message that goes deep against the Trump grain.
If testing the waters was the point of her visit, as it appeared to be, they were rather warm at the storied New Hampshire Institute of Politics, where Cheney spoke on Tuesday. While the largely Republican crowd sat quietly without applauding during her speech, it was not because they didn't agree with what they were hearing (she got a standing ovation at the end). It was because they were listening -- really listening -- to what she had to say. 
"When our constitutional order is threatened, as it is now, rising above partisanship is not simply an aspiration. It is an obligation -- an obligation of every one of us," said Cheney, who is one of just two Republicans on the House select committee investigating the attack on the US Capitol. 
She chastised House GOP leaders for hosting the former President at a fundraiser the night before, where he reportedly said the "insurrection was on November 3," while the January 6 insurrection was a "protest" that was justified.
"Political leaders who sit silent in the face of these false and dangerous claims are aiding a former President who is at war with the rule of law and the Constitution," Cheney, the daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, said flatly.
The obvious question right now -- more than two years out from the New Hampshire primary -- is whether there is a lane for Cheney or someone like her. 
Corky Messner, the Republican who challenged Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen in New Hampshire in 2020 with Trump's endorsement, says he doesn't see it. 
"I think the chances of Liz Cheney, or somebody like her, doing well here when they've been critical of President Trump, today her chances would be very, very, very low," said Messner, who ended up losing the general election by 16 points while Biden carried the state by about 7 points.
"Because former President Trump is still very strong here in New Hampshire," he added of her challenge in a primary.
Tom Rath, a former Republican national committeeman and veteran of New Hampshire GOP politics -- and no fan of Trump -- insists there is a path for Cheney. 
"I believe there is, and I believe there must be. I think you've got to develop this discussion broader than being defined by somebody who had one term four years ago," he said.
Rath admits that may be wishful thinking because Trump's grip on the party is still strong.
"But when we go through the '22 cycle, and we begin to see whether those who are the most loyal or tied to him don't do as well, electorally, as you might think, I think it will change," he said. 
New Hampshire Republicans got schooled in the unpredictable nature of politics that morning, when GOP Gov. Chris Sununu declared he would not run for the Senate, as many had assumed he would. Granite State Republicans and leaders in Washington had seen the popular governor as their best hope of beating Democratic Sen. Maggie Hassan in 2022. Instead, Sununu said he will seek another term as governor.
Even Messner cautioned that 2024 is a lifetime away in politics.
"If it were to happen today, he would win easily," he said of Trump's potential in the 2024 New Hampshire primary. "What happens two years from January, it's just hard to predict."
Which is why Cheney made a point of reminding the crowd of New Hampshire Republicans that she is a conservative.
"I disagree strongly with nearly everything President Biden has done since he's been in office," she said.
"Limited government, low taxes, a strong national defense, the family -- the family as the essential building block of our nation and our society, those are the right ideals for this country," she added.
Matt Mayberry, a Trump delegate in 2016 and 2020 who came to hear Cheney speak, said underscoring her conservative credo was critical.
"Because there will be some in the party who think that if you go against the President, you go against the party, and if you go against the party, then you're not a Republican. That's not true," said Mayberry. 
With Cheney's future at home in Wyoming up in the air thanks to a fierce Trump-backed primary challenge, her trip to New Hampshire indicates she's thinking bigger.
"The Cheney family knows the calendar and knows where it starts, and this is not a bad place for her to be," Rath said of the Granite State.
"Nothing that happens here is an accident," he added with a smile.

Abuja, Nigeria (CNN)US Secretary of State Antony Blinken warned Friday that the war in Tigray has put Ethiopia on a "path to destruction" that could reverberate throughout east Africa, telling CNN that the country's leader, Abiy Ahmed, must fulfill "his responsibility" and end violence in the region.
Speaking to CNN in Abuja, Nigeria on the sidelines of his tour through Africa, Blinken said "it is imperative that the fighting stops, and the talking starts" and reiterated his call for a long-term ceasefire to enable humanitarian assistance.
"This has to happen as soon as possible -- with every passing day, what we're seeing is an increase in communal tensions that really risk ripping the country apart and spilling into other countries in the region," he said.
Blinken urged Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed to bring the warring sides together and work to "end the violence," adding: "That's his responsibility as the leader of the country."
"There's no military solution to the challenges in Ethiopia," he said. "That's a path to destruction for the country, and misery for the people of Ethiopia who deserve a lot better."
The Biden administration last week sanctioned Eritrea's military and its sole political party for their involvement in the ongoing crisis in northern Ethiopia, with Blinken expressing concern about "the potential for Ethiopia to implode."
But the measures did not target any individuals or organizations directly associated with the Ethiopian government nor the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), the former ruling party of Tigray, the two main parties to the conflict.
In November 2020, Abiy ordered a military offensive in Tigray to oust the TPLF. The fighting has left thousands dead, displaced more than 2 million people, and given rise to a wave of atrocities that bear the hallmarks of genocide.
A joint report released by the Office of UN Commissioner for Human Rights and the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission earlier this month found that all parties involved in the conflict had "committed violations of international human rights, humanitarian and refugee law, some of which may amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity."
Blinken pressed on Nigeria arms sales
Blinken spoke to CNN during his first official visit as Secretary of State to sub-Saharan Africa, as the US seeks to throw its diplomatic weight behind efforts to resolve conflicts on the continent and boost its reputation as a partner to African governments.
He began the tour in Kenya on Wednesday and will visit Senegal next.
But intractable tensions in Ethiopia and Nigeria have formed a large segment of his agenda, and Blinken expressed his concerns about human rights abuses following the killing of unarmed protesters at Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos, Nigeria's economic capital, in 2020. 
A much delayed and anticipated report from a Nigerian judicial panel of inquiry concluded on Monday that the shooting was a "massacre" at the hands of the military that the government attempted to cover up. 
Blinken called for action once the panel's report has been officially released. "There may be reforms that are necessary" to ensure a similar event is not repeated, he said.
"If there are individuals that, as it emerges from this report, are responsible for committing abuses, there has to be accountability in terms of those individuals," he told CNN.
In October 2020, Nigerian forces opened fire on peaceful protesters the Lekki toll gate in Lagos. At the time, a CNN investigation into what happened found that the Nigerian army had fired live rounds into the crowd, killing and wounding several people. 
The shooting quashed Nigeria's fledgling youth protest movement against the police unit known as the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), but despite scores of videos shot by protesters, which showed the shooting, as well as the dead and wounded, the Nigerian government has consistently denied that a shooting even took place.
Pressed on whether the US would continue to provide arms to Nigeria, Blinken cited the Leahy Law which prohibits American military sales to regimes that violate human rights.
"If there are units that have committed abuses, we're not going to provide equipment to those units," the top American diplomat said.
"We look in any instance, and if there are credible allegations that prove out, that we believe meet the standard of the law, yes of course we'll apply the law."
Blinken's maiden tour of Africa forms part of his self-declared mission to rebuild American relationships with the international community after the Trump administration severed many of those links.
He told CNN: "We've done that, and we've done that with not only tremendous energy, but I would argue with real success," citing the US' re-joining of the Paris Climate Agreement and its improved relations with the United Nations and the World Health Organization.
But he conceded that the State Department was "learning the lessons" stemming from United States' chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan after a two-decade war. 
He defended President Joe Biden's decision to end US involvement in that conflict, a move that was rapidly followed by Afghanistan falling back to the Taliban.
"There are always questions about how you do things," he added. "Can you do them more effectively?"

Washington (CNN)Republican Reps. Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger broke ranks on Wednesday to join all Democrats in voting for a resolution that both censured Republican Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona and stripped him of his two committee assignments.
The vote came after Gosar posted of a photoshopped anime video to his Twitter and Instagram accounts showing him appearing to kill Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and attacking President Joe Biden. Gosar later took down the video after facing criticism but did not apologize. 
The action led by House Democrats represents a major rebuke to the Arizona Republican while underscoring the rift between Cheney of Wyoming and Kinzinger of Illinois and their GOP colleagues. The pair serves on the House select committee investigating the January 6 attack on the US Capitol, and both lawmakers voted to impeach former President Donald Trump for "incitement of insurrection" following the attack.
"The glorification of the suggestion of the killing of a colleague is completely unacceptable. And I think that it's a clear violation of House rules. I think it's a sad day," Cheney told reporters while walking off the House floor Wednesday. "But I think that it's really important for us to be very clear that violence has no place in our political discourse."
Kinzinger, meanwhile, had previewed his support for the resolution in a tweet Tuesday evening. "We have to hold Members accountable who incite or glorify violence, who spread and perpetuate dangerous conspiracies. The failure to do so will take us one step closer to this fantasized violence becoming real," he said. 
GOP Rep. David Joyce of Ohio told CNN that he voted "present" on the resolution -- meaning he did not vote "yes" or "no" --  because the House Ethics Committee, which he serves on, is meeting to discuss the video that Gosar posted. 
Republican Reps. Barry Loudermilk of Georgia, Scott Perry of Pennsylvania, and Morgan Griffith of Virginia did not vote.
Ahead of the action Wednesday, Gosar refused to answer any questions about his tweet of the violent video, walking in silence. He wouldn't say if he regretted it or explain the claim he made internally that he didn't see the violent episode in the video before he tweeted it out.
CNN's Annie Grayer contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)Republican Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene attacked fellow House Republican Nancy Mace on Tuesday, after Mace condemned inflammatory and anti-Muslim comments made by Republican Rep. Lauren Boebert.
On Twitter, Greene told Mace to "back up off" Boebert, while accusing Mace of not being conservative and attacking her as "the trash in the GOP Conference" and that "she's pro-abort." 
Mace, a Republican from South Carolina, responded to Greene by correcting the Georgia congresswoman's spelling mistake and then defending her own record as a conservative.
"And, while I'm correcting you, I'm a pro-life fiscal conservative who was attacked by the Left all weekend (as I often am) as I defied China while in Taiwan," Mace wrote on Twitter Tuesday, referring to a recent congressional delegation visit to the island. "What I'm not is a religious bigot (or racist). You might want to try that over there in your little 'league.'"
Mace again defended herself later Tuesday, calling Greene a liar for claiming that Mace supported abortion rights, when Mace supports abortion only in cases of rape and incest -- a position rooted in her own experience as a survivor of sexual assault. 
"[Greene] said today that I was pro-abortion, which could not be further from the truth," Mace said on Fox Business. "I voted to defund Planned Parenthood, I voted for South Carolina's fetal heartbeat bill. There are exceptions in that bill for women who are victims of rape and incest because I put them in there."
In her interview with Fox's Neil Cavuto, Mace said she would not "put up with" Greene's description of her record.
"I was raped when I was 16, Neil," Mace added. "I dropped out of school, and it had a devastating impact on my life, and most of America agrees with me on the protections for victims of incest and victims of rape, and I, quite frankly, have a zero-tolerance policy for people like Marjorie Taylor Greene who think 9/11 is a hoax and has been lying about my record and others."
The public spat between the two prominent Republican freshmen members of the House exemplifies the growing divides between the party's moderate and fringe wings. It also shows the difficulty House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy faces in uniting his conference ahead of the 2022 midterms, when Republicans hope to win back the majority in the chamber.
Mace on Sunday had said she absolutely "100 percent" condemns Boebert's anti-Muslim comments and that she was disappointed by the Colorado Republican's remarks.
"I have time after time condemned my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for racist tropes and remarks that I find disgusting, and this is no different than any others," she told CNN's Kaitlan Collins, adding, "We have a responsibility to lower the temperature, and this does not do that." 
Video recently surfaced of Boebert making anti-Muslim comments about Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, implying that Omar, who is one of two Muslim women in Congress, was mistaken for a terrorist in a Capitol Hill elevator. 
Boebert apologized on Twitter Friday to "anyone in the Muslim community I offended" and said she reached out to Omar's office to speak with the Minnesota congresswoman directly. 
The two lawmakers had a contentious phone call on Monday that did little to ease the tensions between them.
Omar said she hung up on Boebert after she "refused to publicly acknowledge her hurtful and dangerous comments." Boebert confirmed that Omar had asked for a public apology, but that she instead called on Omar to issue a public apology of her own for prior comments that Boebert accused of being "anti-American" and "anti-Semitic." 
McCarthy has not condemned Boebert's comments but said in a statement that he spoke to Boebert on Friday in the wake of her comments and encouraged her to meet with Omar.
Meanwhile, Greene has a history of incendiary and violent rhetoric and was stripped of her House committee assignments in February. 
McCarthy previously promised to reinstate Greene on committees, along with Republican Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona who was censured over a video depicting violence against Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and President Joe Biden. 
Republican Rep. Adam Kinzinger of Illinois, who slammed Boebert as "TRASH" in the wake of her remarks about Omar surfacing, has criticized McCarthy for "catering" to the party's far-right flank and warned that his actions are alienating moderates. 
This story has been updated with additional developments Tuesday.
CNN's Sarah Fortinsky and Sonnet Swire contributed to this report.
 (CNN)Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney said at a New Hampshire event on Tuesday that the United States is "confronting a domestic threat that we have never faced before" in the form of former President Donald Trump, who she said is "attempting to unravel the foundations of our constitutional republic."
Cheney also sharply criticized House Republicans for continuing to support Trump, saying that Trump reportedly said that the insurrection was on Election Day, rather than January 6, at the conference's annual fundraising dinner on Monday night.
"Political leaders who sit silent in the face of these false and dangerous claims are aiding the former President who is at war with the rule of law, and the Constitution," Cheney said. "When our constitutional order is threatened, as it is now, rising above partisanship is not simply an aspiration. It is an obligation."
Cheney is the top Republican on the House select committee investigating the attack on the Capitol, and was one of 10 House Republicans to vote to impeach Trump for "incitement of insurrection" following it.
"We are also confronting a domestic threat that we have never faced before: A former president who's attempting to unravel the foundations of our constitutional republic, aided by political leaders, who have made themselves willing hostages to this dangerous and irrational man," said Cheney after ticking off the threats the US faces around the world.
Cheney gave on Tuesday the keynote address for a First Amendment award given by the Saint Anselm College's Institute of Politics. Her comments are sure to prompt speculation about a 2024 presidential run, which could potentially be against the former President. Cheney mentioned in her speech some of her ancestors who lived in New Hampshire, which holds the first primary, that she is a "conservative Republican" who disagrees "strongly with nearly everything President Biden has done since he has been in office," and supports "limited government, low taxes, a strong national defense" and family values.
But while she opposed Biden's policies, she repeatedly took aim at the former President, calling him a "liar" who "tragically misled" Americans and "provoked violence" on January 6.
"I love my party. I love its history. I love its principles," Cheney said. "But I love my country more. I know this nation needs a Republican Party that is based on truth."  
"We need a Republican Party that is led by people who remember that the peaceful transfer of power is sacred," she added. "We need Republican leaders who remember that fidelity to the Constitution, fidelity to the rule of law — those are the most conservative of conservative principles."
In a statement on Tuesday, Trump again ripped the work of Cheney and her colleagues on the House committee investigating the deadly attack on the Capitol and falsely claimed that his 2020 loss was "fraudulent."
"The Unselect Committee of politically ambitious hacks continues to subpoena people wanting to know about those protesting, on January 6th, the insurrection which took place during the Presidential Election of November 3rd," Trump said. "That's right, the Committee is studying the PROTEST when it should be studying the Fraudulent Election that led to the protest. As the LameStream Media knows, the facts are there for all to see!"
CNN's David Wright contributed to this report.
 (CNN)The FBI is working to assess the number of threats made against school board members and teachers, using a tracking tool that it says will help implement a directive from Attorney General Merrick Garland that has come under criticism from Republicans. 
An internal memo to the FBI's counterterrorism and criminal investigators says the bureau is using a "threat tag" system that will help gauge how much of a problem the threats pose around the country.
The FBI memo, released by Republican critics, was a follow up to Garland's October memo that directed federal officials to team up with local law enforcement to come up with a game plan on how to handle threats made against members of school boards and educators. 
Rep. Jim Jordan, a Republican from Ohio, said the internal FBI document, describing the use of what the bureau calls a "threat tag" labeled "EDUOFFICIAL," adds to his view that the Garland is using the FBI to improperly target parents who speak out at school board meetings. 
The FBI issued a statement saying that its focus is on violence and threats of violence, and that its Criminal Investigative Division and Counterterrorism Division share responsibility for evaluating the problem. "Before either division can open an investigation there must be information indicating the potential use of force or violence and a potential violation of federal law" hence the use of a threat tag, the bureau said.
"A tag is merely a statistical tool to track information for review and reporting. The creation of a threat tag in no way changes the long-standing requirements for opening an investigation, nor does it represent a shift in how the FBI prioritizes threats The FBI has used tags to track everything from drug trafficking to human trafficking." 
Jordan, the ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee, sent a letter to Garland on Tuesday accusing him of being disingenuous during his testimony on Capitol Hill last month. 
Jordan, along with other Republicans, grilled Garland during two separate hearings about the usage of federal resources to create a "snitch line on parents" who are anti-mask advocates or against students in kindergarten through 12th grade from learning about critical race theory. 
In the three-page letter, Jordan said that the details in the FBI email "calls into question the accuracy and completeness" of Garland's testimony about whether counterterrorism tools would be used on behalf of the National School Boards Association (NSBA), which Jordan called a "left-wing special interest group against concerned parents." 
The NSBA wrote a letter to the Biden administration on September 29 asking for help to handle ongoing threats towards educators during school board meetings. Republicans raised eyebrows at the swiftness Garland made to draw up the memo within five days after the NSBA's request. 
Jordan went on to offer Garland the opportunity to amend his statements and reiterated requests for a document dump related to the creation of the October school boards memo "to investigate the matter further."
Justice Department spokesman Anthony Coley declined to comment.
The FBI said its internal memo doesn't contemplate investigating parents for first amendment protected activities. 
"The Attorney General's memorandum simply underscores the FBI's ongoing efforts to assist state, local, and federal partners to address threats of violence, regardless of the motivation," the bureau statement said. "The FBI has never been in the business of investigating parents who speak out or policing speech at school board meetings, and we are not going to start now."

 (CNN)As economic concerns erode President Joe Biden's political standing, his aides are trying to assure Americans they're doing everything possible to address fears about inflation and hard-to-find goods heading into the holiday season. 
The White House website is rolling out a new Supply Chain Dashboard, to be updated every two weeks, that will track progress in easing the backlog of imported goods that has accompanied the economy's recovery from coronavirus shutdowns. The dashboard comes as tangled supply chains have boosted the cost and limited the availability of everything from automobiles to clothing to toys.
In the opening edition, obtained before its launch Tuesday by CNN, White House aides attempted to explain and quantify the problem now hitting consumers in the wallet. Emphasizing the good news, they note that strong demand means overall consumer spending has nearly reached its pre-pandemic levels.
But as the pandemic persists, the reshaping of consumer demand from services to physical goods has created choke points at busy ports like those in Los Angeles and Long Beach, California. In normal times, only a few container ships would wait offshore at those ports to unload their goods; as of last Friday, the White House said, there were 75.
A shortage of truck drivers has stalled the distribution of offloaded goods to retailers and other businesses. To address both problems, the White House Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force has worked to relax trucking regulations and persuade ports and railroads to operate around the clock. 
For the first two weeks of October, the two major California ports off-loaded 379,000 containers. That makes a total of 8.1 million for the year -- ahead of the pace of the previous record year of 2018. 
As of the beginning of October, that robust volume of containers had fueled a national inventory of retail goods with a dollar value of $455 billion. That total, which excludes automobiles, is 4% above the same point last year, the administration says.
As Americans prepare to buy holiday gifts, the White House is also tracking a data series compiled by the private firm IRI. That data shows how easily consumers can find goods that retailers offer.
As of Sunday, IRI's "On-The-Shelf Availability" data showed retailers had in stock 89% of the goods they sell. That was just slightly below the 91% level measured in February 2020, before coronavirus shutdowns. 
More important than administration efforts to directly ease the supply chain crunch is the course of the pandemic itself. In the US, economists expect that the return to normal life will shift more consumer spending away from goods and back to services.
Taming the pandemic in Asia and elsewhere would reduce disruptions in manufacturing for semiconductors. Those chips are in particularly short supply, hindering production of cars and other technology-dependent goods.
But the pandemic has defied predictions so far, leaving forecasts for inflation and other economic indicators in doubt.
"The significant reason why prices are up is because of Covid affecting the supply chain," President Joe Biden said Tuesday at a news conference closing out his overseas trip in Glasgow, Scotland.
The President declined an invitation to specify when supply chains might be repaired. He expressed confidence only that Americans will prefer conditions this Thanksgiving to last year's holiday.

 (CNN)During the final Virginia gubernatorial debate in late September, Republican Glenn Youngkin's aides knew they had struck campaign gold. 
"I don't think parents should be telling schools what they should teach," Democrat Terry McAuliffe said in a line that would soon be taken out of context and spliced into stump speeches and campaign ads as Youngkin created a "parents matter" push that helped fuel his victory Tuesday night.
The Slack channel where Youngkin aides were trading messages lit up with disbelief, according to one person with knowledge of the campaign's internal deliberations. "Did he really just say that?" they asked one another.
"McAuliffe handed Youngkin the torch and gasoline with which to start this bonfire," Democratic pollster Mark Mellman said, reflecting on how that moment changed the race.
Youngkin -- who was already skillfully navigating the tightrope of appealing to suburban voters in Northern Virginia as well as supporters of former President Donald Trump -- had provoked his Democratic opponent by criticizing his veto of a bill that would have let parents opt out of reading assignments for their children that they viewed as sexually explicit. It did not matter that among average voters, the context for McAuliffe's veto -- that the bill had grown out of one conservative activist's objections to Toni Morrison's seminal novel about slavery -- was completely lost.
"Without the gasoline and torch there is no way to know how big the fire would have gotten," Mellman added. "Having seen this play out though, I don't think any other Democrats will experiment with providing supplies to the arsonists."
But Youngkin's victory Tuesday night in a state where President Joe Biden won by 10 points may provide a template for Republicans in the 2022 midterms to run on a message centered around education that may outlast pandemic-related frustrations with remote learning. His defeat of McAuliffe -- and his successful incursion into the Northern Virginia suburbs where Trump was so toxic -- raises questions about whether Democrats have taken seriously enough parents' concerns on a range of issues about education. Just under one quarter of Virginia voters called it the most important issue, behind the economy, according to CNN's exit poll.  
"The cracks in the education system, which were more or less hidden for decades, became transparent to all when kids had to start taking classes from home," Republican pollster Neil Newhouse said.
Youngkin's aides had seen proof of that in the exasperated parents showing up at his events -- exhausted from pandemic disruptions, anxious about the sputtering economic recovery and feeling robbed by the promise that Biden and others had made that life would be back to normal by now. With his suburban dad vibe and his focus on kitchen table issues, Youngkin's candidacy seemed like a ready vessel to channel those concerns.
Democrats, however, were quick to dismiss Youngkin's invocation of so-called parental rights as racist, much in the same way they have reacted to conservatives talking about the teaching of critical race theory, an academic concept that holds that systemic racism is deeply enmeshed in American society.
But what they may have missed was that Youngkin's "parents matter" messaging tapped into much larger frustrations that parents have felt over the past year about their loss of control -- feelings that have been building and snowballing throughout the pandemic as they adjusted to one shifting set of rules after another.
"The last year-and-a-half was very illuminating for many parents who suddenly had to take on the role of being their child's teacher in a way that they hadn't before -- helping them navigate lessons, seeing more of what they were being taught," said Kristen Soltis Anderson, a Republican pollster who is the co-founder of Echelon Insights. "That stressful and eye-opening moment for a lot of parents left some real frustration and a desire for schools to take seriously their desires for their own children."
"A lot of the conversation around education, at least on cable news, has drifted into the 'Well, education is just a proxy for the race issue' -- and I think that is a misreading of this," Anderson said. "There is so much other stuff that is included that education winds up being an umbrella for a lot of things. ... So I think the idea that this is all just a made-up issue -- Democrats believe that to their peril."
The "parents matter" messaging and the notion of parental rights -- which House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy has already promised he will turn into a "parents' bill of rights" -- has provided a model for Republicans in the 2022 midterms in part because it is broad enough to capture an array of parents' concerns. 
Much of the heat and passion that has inflamed school board meetings across the country has centered on the controversial question of how to teach America's fraught racial history. And Youngkin leaned into that messaging to connect with the GOP base, promising to ban the teaching of critical race theory -- which is not even taught in K-12 schools in Virginia -- on "day one" but also speaking with greater nuance on the issue than Trump has.
"I think we recognize that Virginia and America has chapters that are abhorrent; we also have great chapters," Youngkin said in one debate as he argued that Virginia needs to teach "real history." But he added, "We don't need to teach our children to view everything through a lens of race and then pit them against one another."
'We need to get back in there so we can help our kids' 
Youngkin's campaign also reflected the fact that many parents across the country have been showing up or zooming into school board meetings because they are angry about many other issues beyond curriculum. 
Covid-19 restrictions have lasted far longer than anyone imagined. Many parents saw firsthand the power that teachers' unions -- who are closely allied with Democrats -- exerted last spring when children could return to the classroom, a motivating factor for many of the moms who got involved in the unsuccessful effort to recall California Gov. Gavin Newsom, a Democrat, earlier this year. 
The city of San Francisco -- hardly a bastion of conservatism -- sued its own school district in February to try to force the resumption of in-person classes, and several parent groups in that city launched a campaign to recall school board members, who they believed were spending too much time debating whether to change school names associated with historical figures that they viewed as racist. 
And despite a flood of pandemic-related education funding from the Covid-related stimulus bills, there are still huge questions about whether school districts will be able to fix the massive learning gaps that have emerged from what amounts to a lost year for some students.
Youngkin's message spoke to parents like Emily Diaz, a 46-year-old Warrenton mother who told CNN's Eric Bradner she brought her three daughters to a Youngkin event so they could "see and recognize candidates who really support them."
"He believes that we have a choice and a voice in schools -- and especially right now, where parents are being locked out of schools, quote-unquote due to Covid," Diaz said. "This is appalling, and we need to get back in there so we can help our kids, help the teachers, to get a good education."
McAuliffe had promised to invest $2 billion in education -- doubling the investment he made in his first term as governor -- and said he would raise teacher salaries above the national average for the first time in history, while also ensuring pre-K for all 3- and 4-year-olds in need.
But Barbara Comstock, a former GOP congresswoman who represented northern Virginia, argued that Youngkin appealed to a broader base of voters on education. 
"He went bigger at the issue -- and he was very active in his own kids' schools -- so I think the whole opportunity issue was where it really resonated," Comstock said. "I hope it will be a sea change, because to me, it's education as a civil rights issue -- and we've all talked about it in those terms. But I think there's a moment here now where it's really resonating with a diverse group of people. The people who don't like this discussion, usually are White, wealthy, liberals and school administrator types who people have kind of had it with."
Republican strategists predict that education will remain a central focus in next year's midterms, even as the pandemic recedes, because many parents now feel more informed and engaged about what is happening on school campuses than they were before Covid-19 hit.
"McAuliffe's comment in the debate about parents not telling schools what they should teach was tone-deaf and seemed to reinforce that he was a Democrat who believes that 'government knows best,'" Newhouse said. "Parents really care about what their kids are being taught, and Democrats would do well to listen to them."

Each week on my "Margins of Error" podcast, we discuss topics that seem to be on the margins at first glance but that are actually where knowledge and discovery really begin. Recent episodes covered cremation and couples sleeping apart. All episodes are based on data points that, when explored further, reveal much more about American politics, culture and behavior.
 (CNN)Election night in America has turned into the electoral version of the Super Bowl. You know what I'm talking about -- we order pizza, make popcorn and wait for a winner to be projected every presidential contest. 
Tonight in Virginia's gubernatorial contest, the stakes won't be nearly as high as they were last year, but election nerds will do the same, with this contest potentially signaling a lot about the political environment heading into the 2022 midterms. In part because of laws requiring absentee ballots to be preprocessed long before Election Day, we're hopeful for a relatively quick count.
Last year, it didn't happen.
As we all know, election night 2020 turned into election week, and a winner (now President Joe Biden) wasn't projected until nearly noon on Saturday. With the exception of the 2000 election, it took more than 7 times as long to project a winner in last year's presidential election than any in the television era (i.e. since 1948). 
As we hit the one-year anniversary of Election Day 2020, I've decided to revisit that day (and week) in the latest episode of my "Margins of Error" podcast. I've generally avoided political topics in my podcasts, instead focusing on issues like ghosts, couples' sleeping arrangements and our aversion to making phone calls. The truth is that politics over the last five years -- and especially during the coronavirus -- well, it wore me out. But when it comes around election time, I get -- dare I say -- a tingling up my spine. 
So in this week's episode, I wanted to answer some questions. Mainly, whether it matters that it took so long to project a winner last year and if so, why did it take so long? And does that tell us anything about future election calls?
This isn't just an academic exercise. Polling in the lead up to the 2020 election showed that many voters would be less confident that the results were counted accurately if it took more than election night to know who won. This included a majority of Republicans, according to CNN/SSRS polling. 
I bet many of these people didn't know that a lot of elections in our country's history took days to determine the winner. According to Columbia University's Nicole Hemmer, "It's not until 1848 that everyone is even voting on the same day. There was a 34-day spread in which people could vote for president in the first half of the 19th century."
She noted that the need for a fast result is "is a part of political culture, not part of election law." This culture really started, Hemmer said, when the telegraph and especially the radio and television took hold.

Indeed, the number one goal of any media projection should be and usually is for it to be accurate. Most major media organizations will only project a state when they are at least 99.5% confident of the outcome. 
Election week 2020 occurred because we couldn't get to that 99.5% confidence. This was caused by a confluence of events including the coronavirus, many more people voting by mail, some key swing states not being able to handle that high volume of mail voting and a large partisan split in who voted by mail. 
This led to slower counts from states such as Michigan and Pennsylvania. 
As the Cook Political Report's Dave Wasserman noted to me, the massive growth of vote-by-mail makes it "just really impossible to make strong conclusions about a competitive race" from the data and equations we have traditionally used. These tools -- like exit polls, sample precincts and early returns -- work best when the vast majority of people vote in-person on Election Day. 
For some, it doesn't really matter if election night becomes a thing of the past. If the count is accurate, then that's all that matters, regardless of when the results come in. 
But I'm not so sure. Faith in the electoral counts is important. We've seen many political actors (most notably former President Donald Trump) try to destroy that faith by attacking the long counts. This led to fewer Americans having confidence in the 2020 election result than any other in recent memory. A majority of Republicans had no confidence at all that the election was conducted fairly, according to a Monmouth University survey taken after the election. 
Looking ahead, there's no doubt that some states are going to continue to take a while with their counts as long as mail-in voting continues to be widely used. But states can certainly expedite their counts by ensuring that mail-in ballots are required to be processed starting in the weeks leading up to the election. 
To that point, Georgia was much faster with its count in the 2021 Senate runoffs than it was in the 2020 presidential election.  
"Once you sort of adopt a given system of voting, you have opportunities to improve upon it over time," the New York Times' Nate Cohn told me. "And I think that some of these...states will have plenty of opportunities to improve on what they showed us in 2020. And I would expect some of those changes to be in place by 2022."
In the meantime, it might be safer to pluralize election night to election nights for the time being.
Get the latest episodes of "Margins of Error" as soon as they drop. Find it in Apple Podcasts, Spotify or your favorite podcast app.

 (CNN)Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman and 2020 Democratic presidential candidate, on Monday launched his campaign to unseat Texas Gov. Greg Abbott in 2022. 
"I'm running for governor," he tweeted alongside a video announcement. "Together, we can push past the small and divisive politics that we see in Texas today -- and get back to the big, bold vision that used to define Texas. A Texas big enough for all of us." 
In launching a campaign that many Democrats in Texas had identified as the party's only chance of denying Abbott a third term, O'Rourke -- an El Paso native and former punk rocker who launched an internet services company and served on the city council before being elected to Congress in 2011 -- is making his third run for office in four years.
His first statewide run in Texas, a long-shot Senate campaign against Republican Ted Cruz in 2018, electrified Democrats in a state where the party has rarely been competitive for a generation.
He rose from little-known congressman to fundraising dynamo, setting what at the time was the all-time record for money raised for a Senate bid. And he did it with a relatively bare-bones campaign structure, mostly driving himself to campaign events across the state with two staffers and live-streaming it all on Facebook. 
O'Rourke's near-miss in the Senate race -- he finished less than 3 percentage points behind Cruz -- led to a short-lived presidential run the following year. By the time he dropped out of the race in October 2019, Democrats in Texas were already publicly musing about him as a candidate for governor in 2022. 
This time, though, O'Rourke faces longer odds. In 2018, with then-President Donald Trump in the White House, the political environment was extremely favorable for Democrats. In 2022, amid the Biden presidency, it's Republicans who hope the midterm electorate will sweep them into power in Washington and statehouses. 
In the two-minute video announcing his campaign, O'Rourke used the February failure of the Texas power grid during a severe winter storm to criticize Abbott's leadership, saying those without power and water were "abandoned by those that were elected to serve and look out for them." 
"When the electricity grid failed and those in power failed all of us, it was the people of Texas who were willing to put their differences behind them and get to work doing the job at hand, which meant helping our fellow Texans get through that crisis," he said. "We did that out of a sense of duty and responsibility to one another. Now imagine if the governor of Texas felt that same way." 
He said Abbott and Republicans in Austin have failed to tackle larger issues, including expanding Medicaid, legalizing marijuana, improving the electricity grid and improving schools. 
"Instead, they're focusing on the kind of extremist policies around abortion or permitless carry or even in our schools that really only divide us and keep us apart and stop us from working together on the truly big things that we want to achieve for one another," he said. "It's a really small vision for a big state. But it doesn't have to be that way."
O'Rourke's support in Texas remains deep among Democratic loyalists, many of whom never took down their white-and-black "Beto" yard signs and bumper stickers. But with Democrats on defense across a much larger playing field, it's not clear he'll be able to tap into the same kind of national fundraising resources he did in 2018. 
Still, O'Rourke has pointed himself toward a showdown with Abbott for months. 
He has harshly criticized the governor's handling of the coronavirus pandemic, the new law that effectively outlaws abortions in Texas, the state's restrictive new voting law and more. 
In social media posts, emails to his political group Powered by People and live-streams, he has hammered Abbott. In March, live-streaming on Facebook from his mother's house, O'Rourke lambasted Abbott's handling of a winter storm that shut down huge portions of the Texas power grid and said the governor had taken actions that were "unconscionable, unforgivable," in ending his mask mandate and allowing all businesses to open at full capacity.
"Our governor has checked out of the fight. He's surrendered to the virus. He's going to allow it to run rampant in this state," O'Rourke said in the video. "We are now on our own. But we are not on our own alone -- we are on our own together. And that might be some cold comfort, but let's take what we've got right now and let's work together."
In October, when Abbott banned all businesses in the state from imposing Covid-19 vaccine mandates, O'Rourke was similarly critical. 
"Abbott's latest anti-science, anti-public health order is creating more chaos and more confusion," he said on Twitter. "Businesses need every tool at their disposal to survive the pandemic and keep workers and customers safe."
One question O'Rourke would face if he attempts another statewide run in Texas is whether his disappointing presidential run, and the positions he took during the campaign, would hurt him.
In the wake of a white supremacist gunman targeting Latinos and killing 23 people at an El Paso Walmart in August 2019, O'Rourke said assault weapons should be outlawed and the government should confiscate those currently legally owned.
"Hell yes, we're going to take your AR-15, your AK-47," he said in a September 2019 presidential debate. "We're not going to allow it to be used against our fellow Americans anymore."
But in Texas, where guns are ingrained in the state's culture and mythology, Republicans say those comments -- as well as progressive positions he took on immigration, including saying he would tear down the wall between Mexico and Texas, telling reporters it has failed to make his hometown on the border any safer -- would badly damage a future O'Rourke campaign.
Abbott has already used O'Rourke's comments from the presidential race on issues like gun control, the Green New Deal, health care reform, immigration and the Black Lives Matter movement -- generally out of context -- in an ad series he has posted on YouTube called "Wrong Way O'Rourke." 
The Republican Governors Association similarly previewed those lines of attack against O'Rourke in a statement that pointed to policies he advocated as a presidential candidate. 
"Texas voters have already rejected Beto O'Rourke for statewide office, and they'll do so again now that they know just how radical he really is," said RGA spokesperson Joanna Rodriguez. "Beto 2.0 vowed to confiscate the firearms of law-abiding citizens, pledged to tear down physical barriers along the border, and supported regulations that would kill over a million jobs across the state and raise taxes and the cost of living on families and small businesses. There's no telling how far Beto 3.0 will go in his vain attempt to stay relevant after running out of promotions to chase in Washington."
This story has been updated with additional information. 

 (CNN)The Department of Homeland Security warned in a new terrorism bulletin Wednesday of a "​​diverse and challenging threat environment" ahead of the holidays, pointing to the spread of violent extremist narratives online, coronavirus pandemic-related stressors and the potential to exploit recent events in Afghanistan. 
Although DHS is not aware of an imminent and credible threat, the public bulletin points out that upcoming religious holidays and associated mass gatherings have previously served as potential targets for acts of violence.
The latest bulletin largely reflects concerns included in the previous August bulletin but was issued to keep the public updated on the ongoing threats facing the US, according to the department. 
This is the Biden administration's fourth National Terrorism Advisory System bulletin, which is issued regularly to inform the public and law enforcement about national terrorism threats and to telegraph the need to be alert and report suspicious activity.
The bulletin notes that pandemic-related stressors have contributed to increased societal strains and tensions, driving several plots by domestic violent extremists. 
Those stressors "may contribute to more violence this and next year," the bulletin reads. 
DHS is concerned that if a new Covid-19 variant emerges and additional public health restrictions are imposed, anti-government violent extremists "could potentially use the new restrictions as a rationale to target government or public health officials or facilities."
On some online platforms connected to domestic violent extremism, there has been a fairly consistent focus on public health restrictions imposed because of Covid-19 and content that describes those restrictions as government overreach, according to a senior DHS official. 
The US withdrawal from Afghanistan has also impacted the national threat environment. Foreign terrorist organizations and domestic extremists will likely continue to attempt to inspire potential US-based followers to engage in violent activity, including by exploiting recent events in Afghanistan, the bulletin reads. 
Additionally, some domestic extremists have attempted to use the relocation of Afghan nationals to the US to exacerbate grievances over immigration and the American Muslim community.
The potential for conspiracy theory-fueled violence also remains a major concern for the department. 
According to the bulletin, law enforcement officials have expressed concerns that the broad sharing of false narratives and conspiracy theories that endorse the use of violence will continue to gain traction.
The online activity of foreign and domestic threat actors is fueling the volatility of the current threat environment, the senior DHS official said.
"We continue to be concerned about the use of online platforms by domestic extremist organizations, foreign terrorist groups, foreign intelligence services as they seek to spread conspiracy theories, disinformation for the express purpose of inspiring acts of violence in the US," the official said of the bulletin.
During a House Intelligence Committee hearing last week, DHS Counterterrorism Coordinator John Cohen said the department has put more emphasis on analyzing online threats of violence in the wake of the January 6 attack on the US Capitol.
"We have become much more forward leaning as it relates to the analyzing of online activity and evaluating activity from the perspective of the potential risk of violence," he said. 
Cohen told the committee that DHS is "much more cognizant and mindful" about incorporating that threat-related information into operational planning. 
He pointed to Inauguration Day as an example. The response by law enforcement to Inauguration Day "was very different" from weeks earlier, he said, and included physical security measures in and around the Capitol and other locations as well as a highly visible presence of National Guard and law enforcement in Washington, DC, and state capitals around the country.
Comments about Inauguration Day on social media and extremist platforms reflected an understanding of those security measures and a reluctance to come to Washington, Cohen said, adding that "those who were planning acts of violence viewed it as a trap being set for their arrest or viewed it as not the right time to come and engage because of the security presence."
The lesson from that, he said, is that DHS analysis has focused more on understanding when there may be a potential act of violence, and then taking steps -- sometimes very visible -- to create security measures that serve as a deterrent.

