In media news today, Kamala Harris gets panned for using a 'French accent' to French scientists, Morgan Ortagus rips Adam Schiff over discredited Steele dossier, and ABC News' FiveThirtyEight publishes an article on 'Why racist white voters often favor Black Republicans'
Liberal CNN dusted off the cliché "Republicans pounce" to describe why the ongoing inflation crisis is a disaster for President Biden on Thursday, even using the often-mocked phrase as a subhead in a story billed as analysis.
Conservatives often knock media outlets for using the "Republicans pounce" or "seize" framework to present an issue potentially damaging to Democrats as one of simply rank partisanship. Despite the term being mocked on a regular basis, a CNN analysis by Stephen Collinson headlined, "Why inflation is a political nightmare for Biden," features an entire "Republicans Pounce" section.

      CNN went with the cliché "Republicans pounce" to help describe why the ongoing inflation crisis is a disaster for President Biden.   (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)
      
CNN’S BRIAN STELTER ATTRACTS TINIEST AUDIENCE OF '21, HAS FAILED TO AVERAGE 800K VIEWERS FOR 10 STRAIGHT WEEKS
Collinson explained why the cost of living increase, which is the highest in 30 years, is a "nightmare" for Biden but expressed dismay that Republicans aren’t factoring in "mitigating factors" such as a pandemic-induced spike in demand and COVID-19 shutdowns resulting in a supply crunch. 
"None of these mitigating factors are stopping Republicans from exploiting the painful cost-of-living increases and prices at the pumps to slam ‘Bidenflation’ and to argue that the President's ambitious political program is squandering past economic gains," Collinson wrote in the section titled, "Republicans Pounce." 

(CNN.com screenshot)
The CNN analysis then focused on GOP lawmakers who have dared to criticize the rising cost of living under Biden. 
"A new CNN fact check contradicts claims by Republicans that rising prices are solely caused by wasteful Democratic spending. Many factors, including supply chain chaos and production limits by OPEC countries, are factoring into a complicated situation," Collinson wrote. 
DON LEMON’S ASSAULT ACCUSER SAYS HE’S TURNED DOWN THREE SETTLEMENT OFFERS
Critics took notice of CNN's approach: 
Last week, The New York Times was similar mocked for "Republicans pounce" to describe the party's efforts to address issues relating to schools and the rights of parents to be involved in their children's education.
Fox News’ Brandon Gillespie and David Rutz contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
'Special Report' All-Star panel discusses the president's sinking approval ratings. 
The Biden administration is asking a federal court to lift an order that blocked its rule mandating that larger employers require workers to get COVID-19 vaccines or submit to regular testing.
The request, filed Monday, comes after the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor of a group of businesses to halt the order, citing "grave statutory and constitutional issues." The ruling put the mandate on hold until pending litigation could be heard.
But the administration claims that the companies that won the emergency stay were not claiming a major prospect of harm from the rule until December, arguing that the court should allow the mandate to proceed.

      President Joe Biden
      (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
HOUSE REPUBLICANS MOVE TO STALL BIDEN'S VACCINE MANDATE
"Accordingly, there is no need to address petitioners’ stay motions now, and the Court should lift its administrative stay and allow this matter to proceed under the process that Congress set forth for judicial review of OSHA standards," lawyers for the administration argued in a federal appeals court.
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulation is set to apply to employers with at least 100 workers, creating a temporary rule that will require those companies to mandate workers be vaccinated against COVID-19 or submit to regular testing. A deadline for companies to comply with the regulation was then set for Jan. 4.
But the mandate was the subject of several lawsuits from states, companies and business groups, who argue it could hinder the economic recovery just as the holiday season goes into high gear.

      President Joe Biden receives a COVID-19 booster shot.
      (Evan Vucci/Associated Press)
Meanwhile, the Biden administration has encouraged large employers to comply with the mandate as the case makes its way through the court system.
"We think people should not wait," White House deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said. "Do not wait to take actions that will keep your workplace safe. It is important and critical to do, and waiting to get more people vaccinated will lead to more outbreaks and sickness.
"The Department of Labor has a responsibility to keep workers safe and the legal authority to do so," Jean-Pierre added.

      President Biden.
      (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
President Biden initially announced the new mandate in September, saying at the time that it was a critical step to increase the number of vaccinated Americans.
"We've been patient, but our patience is wearing thin, and your refusal has cost all of us," Biden said at the time. "While America is in much better shape than it was seven months ago when I took office … we're in a tough stretch, and it could last for a while."
Michael Lee is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter @UAMichaelLee
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Tomi Lahren sounds off in her 'Final Thoughts' commentary
In her Final Thoughts commentary on Monday, host Tomi Lahren praised the Gulf Coast-centric Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals for halting, at least temporarily, President Biden's "Stalin"-esque mandate enforced via OSHA that employers with more than 100 workers verify proof that each employee elected to be injected with a coronavirus vaccine or face termination.
"In a huge win in the fight for liberty, personal, health and medical freedom, state’s rights and the American values that underlie all of those aforementioned things, the 5th circuit court of appeals has halted Biden’s unconstitutional, tyrannical and BS vaccine mandate for businesses," she said, praising Texas Attorney Gen. Ken Paxton for leading the legal effort to block what she said is a constitutionally dubious edict from Biden.
Paxton was joined in the effort by his colleagues in Utah, Mississippi, South Carolina and Louisiana.
On Fox Nation, Lahren questioned Biden's claim that he must as president protect vaccinated Americans from unvaccinated Americans, given the fact that people who have received the vaccine jab can still contract the respiratory virus anyway.

      Klain previously served as Biden’s chief of staff when he was Vice President during the Obama-Biden administration, and is a lawyer with extensive experience across Capitol Hill. 
      
She called the weekly-testing carveout for non-public workers "smoke and mirrors", as many employers will simply pass the cost and inconvenience onto their employees to handle. Qualifying COVID tests for travelers at places such as Newark and Logan Airports can set a patient back hundreds of dollars at a time, for comparison.
"And to make it even more communist-friendly, this mandate would weaponize OSHA, allowing them to send agents to businesses to check for compliance and if not, be fined over $136,000," she said.
"What a not-only-unconstitutional but stupid thing to implement during a supply chain and worker shortage crisis."

      Ken Paxton, Texas attorney general, speaks during the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in Dallas, Texas, U.S., on Sunday, July 11, 2021. The three-day conference is titled "America UnCanceled." Photographer: Dylan Hollingsworth/Bloomberg via Getty Images
      (Dylan Hollingsworth/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
"Health and safety sure sounds a lot like communism mixed with complete and utter lunacy but hey, that’s the trademark of this administration so, not surprised. Stalin and Mao would be so proud."
Lahren went on to characterize Biden as a "sleepy, wannabe-dictator" who is oppressing his own citizens while inviting what could soon be millions of illegal immigrants into the United States with de facto vaccine-mandate exemptions:
"[M]illions of illegals have invaded and are continuing to invade our nation- unmasked, vaxxed or tested. It’s infuriating, it’s wrong and it’s unamerican," she said.
JOIN FOX NATION FOR THE PATRIOT AWARDS
'Where are those leftist worker's rights advocates who parade in the streets for $15 minimum wage and other perks? Is a vax mandate not something you'd like to take up in your noble activism? Or could it be you only do the bidding of the Democrat agenda and couldn't care less about workers themselves?"
"I thank God every night we still have some patriots in this country, like Attorney General Paxton, Governor DeSantis [of Florida] and others who are still willing to go to bat and fight to the death on our behalf."
Fox Nation programs are viewable on-demand and from your mobile device app, but only for Fox Nation subscribers. Go to Fox Nation to start a free trial and watch the extensive library from Tomi Lahren, Pete Hegseth, Abby Hornacek, Laura Ingraham, Ainsley Earhardt, Greg Gutfeld, and many more of your favorite Fox News personalities.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
The retired admiral joined 'America's Newsroom,' applauding the pair despite constant 'strategic ambiguity' tainting bilateral relations.
Retired Admiral William McRaven touted President Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping for their recent virtual summit, calling the dialogue a "good start." He joined "America's Newsroom" on Wednesday to discuss the meeting, touting the pair for their efforts despite the fact "strategic ambiguity" has often tainted bilateral relations. 
BIDEN, XI AGREE TO ARMS TALKS AS CHINA LOOKS TO BOLSTER NUCLEAR ARSENAL
RET ADMIRAL WILLIAM MCRAVEN: I mean, the good news is Biden had a conversation with Xi, and I think that was important. Frankly, I think they have stumbled a little bit from the get-go when the Biden administration had their first meeting in Anchorage. That did not go particularly well, but I think they're starting to get their feet up under them in terms of the national security approach. I applaud both Xi and Biden for coming together to discuss this. Did we make any progress? Probably not, but the dialogue alone is a good start. You know, we have always had this kind of strategic ambiguity when it comes to our discussions with China. Now, the president let the cat out of the bag a little bit the other day when he said that we would defend Taiwan. That has not been our policy, but and of course, White House kind of backtracked on that a little bit. But I do think the dialogue is good. 
WATCH THE FULL INTERVIEW:
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Former Trump national security adviser Gen. Keith Kellogg discusses Biden's meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping.
President Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping agreed to arms control talks as the communist nation looks to beef up its nuclear stockpile, national security adviser Jake Sullivan said Tuesday.
The world leaders held their most extensive talks to date Monday with a virtual three-hour meeting, during which Biden raised the need for "strategic stability" as tensions with China remain heightened.
CHINA SAYS ITS AN 'IMAGINARY ENEMY' OF US, CLAIMS HYPERSONIC MISSILE TEST WAS 'ROUTINE'
"The two leaders agreed that we would look to begin to carry forward discussions on strategic stability," Sullivan said during a virtual panel with the Brookings Institute. "It is now incumbent on us to think about the most productive way to carry it forward from here."

      US President Joe Biden meets with China's President Xi Jinping during a virtual summit from the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington, DC, November 15, 2021.
      (Photo by MANDEL NGAN/AFP via Getty Images)
Neither the White House nor China’s foreign ministry mentioned any plans to hold such talks following the summit, but agreeing to discuss arms control would mean a stance reversal by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).
China flatly rejected nuclear treaty talks after Donald Trump threatened not to renew the New START Treaty, a 2010 agreement between the U.S. and Russia that places limits on the nation's nuclear stockpiles.
The treaty was ultimately renewed by the Biden administration, but Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the White House would continue to push China on countering its expanding nuclear arsenal. 
CHINA CLAIMS BIDEN DENOUNCED 'TAIWAN INDEPENDENCE,' BUT WARNS US IS 'PLAYING WITH FIRE'
Sullivan said any talks with China would not reflect the same kind of long-held dialogue with Russia, noting those agreements are "far more mature."
"What President Xi and President Biden really reinforced to one another at multiple points last night was that this relationship needs to be guided by consistent and regular leader-to-leader interaction," the national security adviser said. 

      In this March 12, 2021 photo, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan speaks with reporters in the James Brady Press Briefing Room at the White House in Washington.
      (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
It remains unclear what nuclear arms talks with China would look like, as the communist nation has repeatedly pointed to its relatively small arsenal as justification for its continued efforts in developing warheads.
According to data from the Arms Control Association, Russia has the largest nuclear arsenal in the world with more than 6,255 warheads on hand. The U.S. comes in second with 5,550 warheads.
China ranks a distant third with 350 nuclear warheads.
Sullivan said the virtual talks Monday were "fundamentally different" from previous calls the leaders have held, adding the discussion was a "more intense, engaged session."
Biden and Xi described their conversation as candid, though neither leader offered solutions to some of the biggest geopolitical hurdles facing U.S.-China relations.

      President Biden meets with China's President Xi Jinping during a virtual summit from the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington, D.C., Nov. 15, 2021.
      (MANDEL NGAN/AFP via Getty Images)
While China’s alleged commitment to engage in nuclear non-proliferation talks with the U.S. would be championed by the Biden administration, Sullivan said the White House would not view such actions as a "favor."
"China’s act of good faith on global issues is not a favor to the United States," he added. "It is something that is expected of all responsible states."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt argues the Biden administration’s vaccine mandate is ‘unconstitutional.’
Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt argued on "America's Newsroom" Monday that the Federal government has "no authority" to mandate vaccines.
 HOUSE REPUBLICANS MOVE TO STALL BIDEN'S VACCINE MANDATE
ERIC SCHMITT: This action by Osha here is unprecedented, breathtaking and unconstitutional, unlawful and unwise. There is simply no authority in the constitution at all for this kind of authority by Osha. The federal government is supposed to be a government of limited powers. The states gave them limited powers. Securing the border happens to be one of them. Requiring the vaccination of nearly 100 million Americans isn’t one of them. There is no statutory authority for this. 
WATCH FULL VIDEO BELOW:
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News' Lucas Tomlinson has more as rising prices put pressure on Biden
President Biden will sign an executive order on Monday directing multiple federal agencies to create a "comprehensive strategy" aimed at improving safety and justice for Native Americans.
The executive order will task the departments of Justice, Interior, Homeland Security, and Health and Human Services to develop a plan that will improve public safety for Native Americans and will ask them to address the issue of missing or murdered Indigenous peoples. 

      President Joe Biden 
      (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
The announcement will come on Monday during the Tribal Nations summit, which is being hosted by the White House.
The executive order also tasks the departments of Justice, Interior and Homeland Security with addressing law enforcement issues in tribal nations and directs the Department of Homeland Security to develop a plan focused on "prevention and survivor support initiatives."
US TO REVIEW NATIVE AMERICAN BOARDING SCHOOLS' DARK HISTORY
During a call with reporters, a senior administration official said the new executive order will help address the high level of crimes that Native Americans face, including Native American women, who "are disproportionately the victims of sexual and gender-based violence."
The senior administration official also announced that the Department of the Interior will also consider a "20-year withdrawal of federal lands within a 12-mile radius around Chaco Culture National Historical Park," which would ban all new federal oil and gas leasing and development. 
The Department of Interior has also put a moratorium in place, which bans new state mineral leases within 10 miles of the Chaco Culture National Historical Park, which is in New Mexico.

      In this April 23, 2021, file photo, Interior Secretary Deb Haaland speaks during a news briefing at the White House in Washington. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)
      
BIDEN IS FIRST PRESIDENT TO MARK INDIGENOUS PEOPLES’ DAY
Biden is set to announce Monday that a total of 17 federal agencies have entered into a tribal treaty rights memorandum of understanding regarding the leasing of land in Chaco Culture National Historical Park.
The senior administration official said the executive order comes as part of Biden's efforts to restore the relationship between the United States and federally recognized tribes.
"We're really excited about the work that President Biden's administration has done to restore the nation and nation relationship between the United States and federally recognized tribes, as well as the work that this administration has done to protect important tribal lands," the senior official said. "Since taking office, President Biden has taken executive action a number of fronts to protect important tribal lands while also prioritizing environmental justice. Just to give you a few examples of those actions, the president revoked the Keystone XL pipeline permit."

      President Biden signs an executive order on the economy with Vice President Kamala Harris Feb. 24, 2021, in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Doug Mills-Pool/Getty Images)
      (Getty Images)
The official said the administration will also be working to create a database of all tribal treaties between the United States that will be accessible for federal employees in addition to the general public.
Adam Sabes is a writer at Fox News. You can reach him at Adam.Sabes@fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Heritage Foundation senior fellow Dean Cheng on the danger presented by China's hypersonic missiles.
President Biden will not "hold back" on areas of concern in his virtual meeting Monday evening with Chinese President Xi Jinping, as the Biden administration works to stabilize the relationship between the U.S. and China. 
The White House announced the meeting Friday, saying that the two leaders "will discuss ways to responsibly manage the competition between the United States and the PRC, as well as ways to work together where our interests align." 
BIDEN-XI SET VIRTUAL SUMMIT FOR MONDAY TO DISCUSS TENSIONS
"Throughout, President Biden will make clear U.S. intentions and priorities and be clear and candid about our concerns with the PRC," the White House said.
In addition to discussing the relationship in general, the Biden administration in recent months has also focused on China’s lack of transparency with regard to the international investigation into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
White House press secretary Jen Psaki, in previewing the meeting, said that the origin of the COVID-19 pandemic is a "remaining concern" for Biden.
"There will be a broad range of topics that will be discussed," Psaki said. "And the president is certainly not going to hold back on areas where he has concern."
China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson confirmed the meeting for Monday evening, saying that it is "hoped that the U.S. can work with China toward the same direction and make concerted efforts to make the heads-of-state meeting a success," which, the spokesperson said, "will steer the China-US relationship back to the right track of sound and steady development."
The meeting will be the third engagement between the two leaders since February. It comes after the U.S. and China this week pledged at U.N. climate talks in Glasgow, Scotland to increase their cooperation and speed up action to rein in climate-damaging emissions.
Biden and Xi have a familiar relationship, after having worked together while they both were vice presidents.
FEBRUARY CALL: BIDEN LAYS OUT 'PRESCRIPTION' FOR U.S.-CHINA RELATIONS IN FIRST CALL WITH XI JINPING SINCE TAKING OFFICE
Biden spoke with Xi once over the phone in February, and again in September, where he first proposed the virtual meeting with Xi, after suggesting he would like to be able to see him again.
However, Xi has not left China since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic. White House officials proposed a virtual summit as the best available substitute for the two leaders to have a substantive conversation on a number of issues that have put strains on the U.S.-China relationship.
Biden used the first call to outline his administration’s "core concerns" with China’s "practices, aggressive activities, and abuses," while discussing areas in which he felt it could be in the United States’ national interest to work with Beijing.
The September call, according to senior administration officials, was used to set "guardrails and parameters" in the U.S.-China relationship to ensure that while the two nations are in "stiff competition," that they do not "veer into conflict."
"While we remain in a competitive space, we don’t want that to veer into conflict," the official added, acknowledging that the U.S. is in a "competitive posture with China." 
"That’s the dominant framework of this relationship," the official said after the September call.
SEPTEMBER CALL: BIDEN, IN CALL WITH CHINA'S XI JINPING, SETS 'GUARDRAILS' TO ENSURE 'COMPETITION DOES NOT VEER INTO CONFLICT'
Historically, the official explained, there has been a "binary" relationship between the United States and China. 
"We’re either in a period of engagement or a period of confrontation with China," the official said. 
"That’s not where we are anymore," the official said, adding that the Biden administration thinks the "goal" should be to "reach a steady state of affairs."
"We should be in a stiff, competitive posture, but one in which we can do many things at once," the official said, pointing to holding China accountable for its practices, and protecting the interests and values of the United States and U.S. allies. 
Officials have also warned that China is the "only competitor" potentially capable of mounting a "challenge" to the international system.
The CIA last month announced the formation of the China Mission Center to counter China. CIA Director William Burns said the China Mission Center will address the challenges posed by the People’s Republic of China and emphasized that "the threat is from the Chinese government, not its people."
Burns said the new mission center will bring "a whole-of-Agency response" and will "unify the exceptional work CIA is already doing against the key rival."
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Neal Crabtree and Lynn Allen, who used to work on the Keystone XL pipeline, react to the possibility of another pipeline shutdown and explain why this will only continue to be bad for jobs, prices, and accessibility.
President Biden's nominee to lead a branch of the Treasury Department, Saule Omarova, said in a recently resurfaced video that she supports the idea of energy industries going "bankrupt" to combat climate change.
The Cornell University law professor, who has been nominated to lead the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, first made the remarks during a February "Social Wealth Seminar" event hosted by the Jain Family Institute, a nonprofit research organization. The nonprofit group American Accountability Foundation (AAF) recently dug up the clip from her discussion at the event and posted it to social media.
Naming the coal, oil and gas industries, specifically, Omarova said "a lot" of the "small players" in those industries "are going to probably go bankrupt in short order," adding: "At least we want them to go bankrupt if we want to tackle climate change, right?"
OMAROVA COULD BE NEXT BIDEN NOMINEE TO GO DOWN WITH BANKING COMMITTEE DEMS RELUCTANT TO SUPPORT HER
Omarova during her presentation was making the case for a U.S. National Investment Authority – a proposed federal agency that would work with the Treasury and the Fed to allocate public and private capital to green infrastructure companies, according to Data for Progress.
"The NIA will be able to negotiate equity stakes in private enterprises that receive that public aid, be it part of the systemic bailout or be it part of … individual restructuring help, for example, for certain troubled industries and firms that are transitioning," she said.
The Wall Street critic added later after naming the coal, oil and gas industries that the prospective bankruptcy of traditional energy companies would create a loss of jobs and "a lot of displacement" that the United States "can't afford."
The National Capital Management Corp. "could actually become the kind of equity investor at that point, taking over management of those companies and basically leading them through restructuring to a new technological … business model," she said.
BIDEN TREASURY NOMINEE OMAROVA WAS MEMBER OF MARXIST FACEBOOK GROUP AS RECENTLY AS 2019, POST INDICATES
AAF founder Tom Jones condemned Omarova's comments in a statement to Fox News. 
"Calling to bankrupt the fossil fuel industry that drives nearly our entire economy is dangerously misinformed," Jones said. "Yet the Biden administration is nominating zealots like Saule Omarova to serve in our government as they attempt to destroy American energy jobs and stifle innovation."

      Workers remove a large clamp from a section of pipe during construction of the Gulf Coast Project pipeline in Prague, Oklahoma, on March 11, 2013. Daniel Acker/Bloomberg via Getty Images
      
CONCERNS MOUNT ON ENERGY PROVISIONS WITHIN DEMOCRAT SPENDING BILL
The Biden administration has put a strong emphasis on combating climate change since the president took office and immediately halted construction on the Keystone XL Pipeline. Through his $1.7 trillion Build Back Better Act, the president aims to reduce U.S. oil reliance and greenhouse gas emissions, which has some concerned that prices will continue to inflate for consumers.
Gas prices have hit a seven-year high after shortages in the post-pandemic market have left demand up and inflation spiking. 
The spending package would set aside $775 million for Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) grants, rebates, contracts and loans to help reduce emissions that stem from petroleum and natural gas systems.
Fox News' Caitlin McFall contributed to this report.
Audrey Conklin is a digital reporter for FOX Business and Fox News. Email tips to audrey.conklin@fox.com. Follow her on Twitter at @audpants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Rep. Chip Roy, R-Texas, urged the Biden administration to enforce the law to protect Americans as the border crisis continues.
Rep. Chip Roy, R-Texas, blasted the Biden administration's "incompetent" immigration policies, saying "blood is on his hands" as the crisis at the southern border continues. The Texas congressman appeared on "The Faulkner Focus" Monday to discuss how the White House has handled the chaos at the southern border. 
ANGEL MOM RIPS BIDEN OVER ‘OUTRAGEOUS’ IMMIGRATION POLICY: MY SON SHOULD STILL BE HERE
CHIP ROY: Well, I think that the president came home and he's getting taken to the woodshed by the people who are actually running the White House. I think that's what's actually happening… So the president calls it a garbage report. Now he switches gears, saying that you need to have compensation for these families, about the outrageous immigration policies was the exact quote from him on Saturday, involving the Trump administration's policies… Who has outrageous immigration policies? This president and this administration. We've had 280,000 individuals released in the United States, 120,000 children, another 400,00 gotaways. Harris, that's about 800,000 people. Meanwhile, what do we have? We had a Honduran immigrant who posed as a 17-year-old going into the home of a Floridian who took that person in and killed this person. This is the reality of what's happening in our country. We should be compensating [sic] Americans by actually enforcing the law so that they're not dying from fentanyl overdoses, they're not having people go into their homes and kill them, [and] little migrant girls aren't getting raped on the journey. That's what this administration owns and the blood is on his hands. Instead of this rhetoric about unaccompanied children, he's causing unaccompanied children [to be] separated from their families by his incompetent policies. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News legal analyst Gregg Jarrett reacts to federal agents' search of Project Veritas-related homes on 'Hannity.'
The FBI raided the home of Project Veritas founder James O'Keefe as part of a federal investigation into the "stolen" diary of President Biden's daughter, Ashley Biden. 
The New York Times reported the raid took place early Saturday morning just days after the homes of two Project Veritas associates were also the subject of search warrants. 
A spokesman for the FBI told the Times its agents had "performed law enforcement activity" at his apartment building in Mamaroneck, New York, but did not comment on the investigation. 
JAMES O'KEEFE ADDRESSES FBI RAIDS OF PROJECT VERITAS REPORTERS OVER BIDEN DAUGHTER'S ‘STOLEN’ DIARY
The investigation is being conducted by the FBI and federal prosecutors in Manhattan.
Project Veritas responded to a Fox News inquiry by pointing to video remarks O'Keefe released Friday reacting to the previous FBI raids of his journalists
The investigation surrounds a "stolen" diary belonging to Ashley Biden that went missing just days before the 2020 presidential election.
O'Keefe confirmed the Times' previous reporting about two other FBI raids that took place this week, releasing a video message addressing his group's apparent ties to the diary and declaring "Project Veritas came under attack."
"I woke to the news that apartments and homes of Project Veritas journalists, or former journalists, had been raided by FBI agents," O'Keefe began. "It appears the Southern District of New York now has journalists in their sights for the supposed crime of doing their jobs lawfully and honestly, or at least this journalist."
JAMES O'KEEFE FIRES BACK AT NEW YORK TIMES OVER ‘HIT PIECE’ ON PROJECT VERITAS
O'Keefe alleged that "within an hour" of the FBI's raid of the home of a Project Veritas reporter, the Times contacted that reporter for comment. 
"We do not know how the New York Times was aware of the execution of a search warrant at our reporter's home or the subject matter of the search warrant as a grand jury investigation is secret," O'Keefe said. "The FBI took materials of current, former Project Veritas journalists despite the fact that our legal team previously contacted the Department of Justice and voluntarily conveyed unassailable facts that demonstrate Project Veritas' lack of involvement in criminal activity, and or criminal intent."
"Our efforts were the stuff of responsible ethical journalism, and we are in no doubt that Project Veritas acted properly at each and every step," O'Keefe asserted. 
The Project Veritas founder then explained that "tipsters" approached his group late last year alleging to have Ashley Biden's diary containing "explosive allegations" about her father, then the Democratic nominee, and that the diary was allegedly abandoned in a room that she had stayed at and that they stayed after. 
The "tipsters," who O'Keefe said he had never met prior, were apparently negotiating with media outlets to sell Biden's diary and that ultimately, Project Veritas did not publish the book's contents because his group was not able to independently verify its authenticity. 
O'KEEFE: ‘MORE TO COME’ AFTER PROJECT VERITAS RELEASE S DOCS REVEALING FACEBOOK CENSORING ‘VACCINE HESITANCY’
"Project Veritas gave the diary to law enforcement to ensure it could be returned to its rightful owner. We never published it," O'Keefe said. "Now, Ms. Biden's father's Department of Justice, specifically the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York, appears to be investigating the situation, claiming the diary was stolen. We don't know if it was but it begs the question: In what world is the alleged theft of a diary investigated by the President's FBI and his Department of Justice? A diary?"
O'Keefe went on to claim the investigation "smacks of politics" but that Project Veritas will "not back down."

      Conservative political activist James O'Keefe speaks during the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in National Harbor, Maryland, on March 1, 2019. (Photo by MANDEL NGAN / AFP) (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP via Getty Images)
      
Fox News legal analyst Gregg Jarrett appeared on "Hannity" Friday and stressed there's a "huge difference" between what Ashley Biden's attorney has alleged that her diary was stolen versus what O'Keefe alleged about it being left behind in a room, saying "one's a crime and the other one isn't."
"Project Veritas did the right thing," Jarrett told Fox News' Sean Hannity. "They didn't publish this because they couldn't verify the authenticity of the documents, but the other conservative website did publish it but they claimed they did verify it. What is so bewildering about this is why in the world would the feds even involved in it."
Jarrett insisted that even if the diary was the subject of a theft, it would be a "state crime" rather than a federal crime and that the investigation, which allegedly began under Attorney General William Barr, has become an "enormous conflict of interest" with President Biden now in office. 
"A journalist cannot be criminally prosecuted for publishing stolen material unless the journalist himself or herself is involved in the theft. There's no indication of that," Jarrett said. "And the same is true of leaked classified information. Journalists have never been prosecuted for that, although the leakers have when they're identified. So we don't know a whole lot about this story, but it's deeply troubling. They would barge into the homes of two journalists armed with a search warrant signed off by a federal judge and the Department of Justice, presided over by Joe Biden, this smacks of a political investigation and potential prosecution."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Sen. Ted Cruz ripped Dan Rather over the former news anchor’s tweet lamenting a federal appeals court halting President Biden’s vaccine mandate, highlighting that Rather was "fired for chronic lying" in journalism. 
"Hey. Let me fix that headline for you," Cruz said to Rather Saturday on Twitter. "‘Federal appeals court upholds the rule of law. Leftist news anchor who was fired for chronic lying laments that the Constitution remains in force.’"
The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals on Friday reaffirmed its decision to enact a stay on Biden’s federal vaccine mandate for companies with 100 or more employees. 
APPEALS COURT RE-AFFIRMS STAY ON BIDEN WORKPLACE VACCINE MANDATE, CITES 'SEVERE' RISKS
Rather had initially tweeted a link to a Washington Post story on the ruling, headlined, "Federal appeals court halts Biden administration’s vaccine requirement, delivering policy a major blow."

      THE TONIGHT SHOW STARRING JIMMY FALLON -- Episode 1381A -- Pictured in this screengrab: Journalist Dan Rather during an interview on January 6, 2021
7:34
WASHINGTON, DC - NOVEMBER 03: Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) departs from the Senate Chamber following a vote on Wednesday, Nov. 3, 2021 in Washington, DC. (Kent Nishimura / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images)
      
"Hey. Let me fix that headline for you," Rather tweeted, accompanied by his proposed headline, "Federal appeals court halts important public health measure delivering the safety and welfare of the nation a major blow."
Rather, 90, was fired from CBS News after he questioned President George W. Bush’s military service in 2004, claiming the former president went AWOL during his time in the Texas Air National Guard. The Bush administration at the time hit back that the report was based on inauthentic documents. An investigation was launched and concluded the CBS report disregarded "fundamental journalistic principles," leading to Rather and multiple CBS executives getting fired. 

      FILE PHOTO: U.S. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) addresses a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., October 6, 2021. Picture taken October 6, 2021. REUTERS/Evelyn Hockstein/File Photo
      (Reuters)
TEXAS ATTORNEY GENERAL SUES BIDEN ADMINISTRATION, SLAMS 'FLATLY UNCONSTITUTIONAL' FEDERAL VACCINE MANDATE
Rather defended the segment in 2015, saying, "We reported a true story."
"We didn’t do it perfectly," he told The Hollywood Reporter at the time. "We made some mistakes of getting to the truth. But that didn’t change the truth of what we reported."

      FILE - In this Nov. 30, 2015 file photo, Journalist Dan Rather attends The Independent Filmmaker Project's 25th Annual Gotham Independent Film Awards in New York. Rather will host an hour-long television special in two weeks on five musicians who have died within the past 13 months, featuring his own interview with the late Merle Haggard. The special also focuses on Prince, David Bowie, Natalie Cole and B.B. King and is scheduled for June 7 on AXS-TV. (Photo by Evan Agostini/Invision/AP, File)
      
The appeals court upholding its decision comes as a victory for conservatives, who have called Biden’s mandate "unconstitutional" since Biden first announced the requirement in September. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed

White House deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre backtracked Monday after slamming reporting on the Line 5 pipeline in Michigan as "inaccurate," admitting that the administration is indeed exploring the potential impact of shutting it down amid a global energy crisis.
Jean-Pierre made the comment during the White House daily press briefing in response to Fox News White House correspondent Peter Doocy, who asked why the Biden administration is "now considering shutting down the Line 5 pipeline from Canada to Michigan" while oil and gas prices continue to skyrocket.
BIDEN DRAWS CRITICISM OVER POSSIBLE PLAN TO SHUT DOWN OIL PIPELINE AS WINTER APPROACHES

      White House Deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre reaches to retrieve her mask as U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg speaks during the daily briefing at the White House on Nov. 8, 2021, in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
      
"So, Peter, that is inaccurate," Jean-Pierre fired back. "That is not right. So any reporting indicating that some decision has been made, again, is not accurate."
"What’s inaccurate?" Doocy asked.
"The reporting about us wanting to shut down the Line 5," Jean-Pierre responded.
"I didn’t say ‘wanting,’" Doocy said. "I said, is it being studied right now? Is the administration studying the impact of shutting down the Line 5? 
"Yes, we are. We are," Jean-Pierre replied. "I thought you were saying that we were going to shut it down, but that is not inaccurate. The Army Corps of Engineers is preparing an environmental impact to look through this."

      President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden return to the White House on Nov. 8, 2021, in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
      
Politico originally reported Sunday that the Biden administration was weighing the potential market consequences of shutting down the pipeline. The report has drawn criticism from Republican lawmakers in Congress, and more than a dozen sent a letter to Biden on Nov. 4 warning against such a move as gas prices surge 50%.
While Jean-Pierre referred to an environmental study about the pipeline, the Politico report said the administration was looking at the economic impacts of killing the pipeline. 
An environmental study has been in the works about a potential Line 5 replacement, though that is a separate issue from the dispute between Michigan and Canada about the existing pipeline. 
Line 5 is part of a network that moves crude oil and other petroleum products from western Canada, transporting about 540,000 barrels per day. Petroleum is taken from the pipeline in Escanaba, Michigan.
Fox News' Jon Brown contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
The House passed a $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill with a bipartisan vote Friday, ending weeks of deadlock amid infighting between the party's moderates and progressives.
Covered by: Tyler Olson
, Edmund DeMarche, Fox News, Thomas Barrabi, Audrey Conklin and Andrew Mark Miller
Democrats on Friday passed their $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill, ending weeks of deadlock amid infighting between the party's moderates and progressives.
The House vote was 228-206, with 13 GOP lawmakers crossing party lines to join Democrats in voting in favor of the legislation and six progressive Democrats voting against the massive spending package.
House lawmakers also voted 221-213 along party lines to pass the procedural “rule” for President Biden’s expansive social spending bill late Friday night.
Fast, 24/7 alerts delivered to your inbox daily. Subscribe to be in the know of the most important moments around the world.
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy.
incoming update…
Coverage for this event has ended.

Fox News senior correspondent Alicia Acuna issued a warning amid the passage of the bipartisan $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill late Friday night, adding that "we're really getting used to some big numbers, and it's getting to be really frightening."
President Biden’s $1.7 trillion Build Back Better Act is expected to receive little to no GOP support in Congress, and Republicans have grown increasingly concerned about how the spending package could affect prices at the pump.
Gas prices have hit a seven-year high after shortages in the post-pandemic market have left demand up and inflation spiking. 
The latest move to transition the U.S. away from oil reliance and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the president’s social spending package has some concerned that prices will continue to inflate for consumers.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Saturday issued a statement applauding House Democrats' success in passing their $1.2 trillion infrastructer package on Friday evening.
"The American people sent President Biden to the White House and Democratic Majorities to Congress to deliver results that make their lives better," she said. "Last night, by sending an historic and bipartisan infrastructure package to the President’s desk, that is exactly what we have done."
Pelosi added that "Democrats have taken a momentous step toward realizing our transformative agenda."

"When the House returns, we will pass our Build Back Better Act to bring down the everyday costs that burden working parents – from health care to child care to paid leave to prescription drugs and more – while also securing one of the largest middle class tax cuts in history," the Speaker continued.
The push to advance U.S. infrastructure by improving transit systems and advancing climate-friendly initiatives was a cornerstone of President Biden’s campaign, but fighting over his social spending package has stoked division within his party.
While the bill had wide support from Democrats, six of the party’s progressive leaders voted against the legislation.
Democratic lawmakers, dubbed the "Squad," voted against the mammoth infrastructure bill in protest to fact the $1.7 trillion Build Back Better social spending package was not also voted on. 

"I have been clear that I would not be able to support the infrastructure bill without a vote on the Build Back Better Act," Rep. Ilhan Omar, D-Minn., said in a Friday statement. "Passing the infrastructure bill without passing the Build Back Better Act first risks leaving behind childcare, paid leave, health care, climate action, housing, education, and a roadmap to citizenship."
Read more on Fox News here.
Sen. Bill Hagerty, R-Tenn., on Saturday criticized Republicans who voted in favor of the bipartisan $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill, which passed in the House on Friday night.
Thirteen GOP lawmakers joining Democrats to vote in favor of the legislation and six progressive Democrats voting against the massive spending package.
"It was very surprising to me to see 13 Republicans basically bail Nancy Pelosi out," Haggerty said on Fox News' "CAVUTO Live" Saturday morning. "She did not have the votes within her own party to do this. We had 13 Republicans that decided to step up and help her in this way, and what they did is put themselves on a path to early retirement."
Read more on Fox News here.
President Biden on Saturday hailed the passing of what he called a "long overdue" infrastructure bill after it passed the House with Republican votes a day earlier.
"Folks, yesterday I don’t think it’s an exaggeration to suggest that we took a monumental step forward as a nation," a clearly delighted Biden said at a press conference.

Biden touted 5.6 million jobs since he took office and an unemployment rate of 4.6%.
"And we’re just getting started," he said. "We did something that's been long overdue, that long has been talked about in Washington, but never actually been done."
Read more on Fox News here.

In this July 28, 2016, file photo, former Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm speaks during the final day of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. (AP Photo/Paul Sancya, File)

Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm on Saturday applauded the passage of President Biden’s $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill and called on Congress to "move quickly" on passing the social spending package.
"President Biden came into office promising to find consensus in Washington so he can better the lives of Americans in all places in our country. With the House’s passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, he has delivered," Granholm said. "So many before tried and failed to accomplish such significant investments in our families, in our communities, and in our future.

Read more on Fox Business here.



President Biden said Saturday that he supports payments to migrants who were separated from their family during the Trump administration.
Biden last week called reports of $450,000 payments to illegal immigrants "garbage," but indicated Saturday that he was responding to the dollar amount.
The migrants, he said in response to a question from Fox News' David Spunt, "deserve some kind of compensation," even as he said he doesn't know what the number will be.

President Biden speaks about the bipartisan infrastructure bill in the State Dinning Room of the White House, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)

President Biden indicated Saturday that he would not sign the bipartisan $1,200,000,000,000 infrastructure bill but would wait until members of Congress could be there for a signing ceremony.
That will happen "soon," he said.

"When we have the bill signing I'll be able to thank everyone in the House and the Senate for their leadership," he said, mentioning House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, Whip James Clyburn and more.
He said that the American people would begin feeling the effects of the infrastructure in two to three months. "This is a blue collar blueprint to rebuild America, and it's long overdue," he said.


President Biden speaks about the bipartisan infrastructure bill in the State Dinning Room of the White House, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)

President Biden touted his spending agenda after the House passed the bipartisan infrastructure bill.
He also reacted to the Virginia governor's race where Democrat Terry McAuliffe lost to Republican Glenn Youngkin. He doubled down on his agenda despite the loss, saying one lesson from the 2021 election was that Americans want Congress to "get something done."


President Biden will give remarks Saturday morning after the House voted to pass Democrats’ $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill across party lines.
Biden said in a Friday night statement that the legislation will “create millions of jobs, turn the climate crisis into an opportunity, and put us on a path to win the economic competition for the 21st Century.”
House lawmakers also voted 221-213 along party lines to pass the procedural “rule” for President Biden’s expansive social spending bill, clearing the way for House Democratic leaders to eventually bring the president’s $1.75 trillion spending bill up for a vote. 

“The Build Back Better Act will be a once-in-a-generation investment in our people,” Biden said in his statement. “It will lower bills for healthcare, child care, elder care, prescription drugs, and preschool. And middle-class families get a tax cut. This bill is also fiscally responsible, fully paid for, and doesn’t raise the deficit.”

President Biden and House Democrats celebrated overnight after the passage of the bipartisan $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill, which ended weeks of deadlock amid infighting between the party's moderates and progressives. 
"Tonight, we took a monumental step forward as a nation," Biden said in a statement issued by the White House early Saturday.
Biden, who has been urging Democrats to pass the signature item on his agenda, called the legislation a "once-in-a-generation investment in our people." 





House Republicans opposing the Democrats' $1 trillion infrastructure package reacted swiftly late Friday after their colleagues across the aisle – aided by 13 members of the GOP – passed the legislation. 
The bipartisan bill’s passage was viewed a win for the Biden administration and ended weeks of deadlock between moderate and progressive Democrats. 
Some Republicans who voted "no" called the bill "communist" or "socialist" and decried their GOP colleagues who voted with Democrats. 
House lawmakers voted 221-213 along party lines to pass the procedural “rule” for President Biden’s expansive social spending bill late Friday night, securing a measure of progress for Democratic leaders who were forced to delay a planned vote on the bill itself.
The adoption of the “rule” governing the reconciliation process clears the way for House Democratic leaders to eventually bring Biden’s $1.75 trillion spending bill up for a vote. Moments before the procedural vote occurred, the House voted to pass the separate $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package.

Plans to vote on both bills Friday were dropped after moderates insisted the Congressional Budget Office “score” the spending bill so they could better understand its financial implications before a vote. Their resistance prompted Pelosi to move forward with the procedural “rule” vote to make progress without actually passing the bill.
Progressives agreed to support both the “rule” and the infrastructure bill after securing a deal with moderates, who promised to vote for the spending bill as it is currently written no later than Nov. 15.
House lawmakers passed President Biden’s $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill late Friday night, securing a key victory for his administration and breaking a weeks-long deadlock between moderates and progressives that threatened to derail the legislation.
The House vote was 228-206, with 13 GOP lawmakers crossing party lines to join Democrats in voting in favor of the legislation.
The bill, which provides funding for physical infrastructure projects such as roads, bridges, water pipes and broadband internet, will now advance to President Biden’s desk for final approval. Senate lawmakers already voted 69-30 to approve the legislation in August.

The legislation passed after months of tenuous negotiations, with Democratic leaders working frantically to reach a consensus that satisfied both progressive and moderate holdouts. Talks nearly collapsed on several occasions, including as recently as mere minutes before the vote.
Progressives agreed to vote for the infrastructure bill after a securing a pledge from a group of House moderates, who committed to voting for Biden's $1.75 trillion social spending bill no later than the week of Nov. 15.
The Congressional Progressive Caucus said late Friday that its members will vote in favor of both the spending bill "rule" and the bipartisan infrastructure bill. Their commitment followed a pledge by House moderates to vote for the "Build Back Better Act" as it is currently written no later than the week of Nov. 15.
Support from progressives is a major win for Democratic leaders who scrambled to salvage a vote on the infrastructure bill and advance the spending bill.
Read the Progressive Caucus' statement below.

“Tonight, members of the Progressive Caucus and our colleagues in the Democratic Caucus reached an agreement to advance both pieces of President Biden’s legislative agenda. Our colleagues have committed to voting for the transformative Build Back Better Act, as currently written, no later than the week of November 15. All of our colleagues have also committed to voting tonight on the rule to move the Build Back Better Act forward to codify this promise. The President has affirmed these members gave him the same commitment.
“As part of this agreement, at the request of the President, and to ensure we pass both bills through the House, progressives will advance the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and the House rule on Build Back Better tonight.”



A group of five moderate House Democratic lawmakers released a statement committing to vote for the Biden spending bill once the Congressional Budget Office finishes "scoring" the legislation. The lawmakers added that they would work to address any discrepancies that arise between the CB score and previous spending estimates.
The statement is meant to reassure progressive lawmakers who balked after a vote on the spending bill was delayed.

House lawmakers wrapped up their debate on the procedural "rule" governing the spending bill. The House then went into a recess, subject to the call of the chair.
Lawmakers have still not voted on the bipartisan infrastructure bill or on whether to adopt the "rule" on the spending bill.

"I am urging all members to vote for both the rule for consideration of the Build Back Better Act and final passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure bill tonight," President Biden said in a statement. "I am confident that during the week of November 15, the House will pass the Build Back Better Act."
The House has finally opened debate on the 'rule' for President Biden's "Build Back Better Act." While the debate and an eventual vote on the rule governing the legislation is a necessary procedural step, lawmakers won't vote on whether to pass the actual bill tonight.
Following the debate, House lawmakers are scheduled to vote on the bipartisan infrastructure bill, which already passed the Senate in August. It's still unclear if Democratic leaders can secure enough support from progressives to pass the infrastructure bill.
“The President is speaking with House leadership, progressives, and moderates in an effort to come to a solution. And he has been urging a vote tonight," a White House official told Fox News' Jacqui Heinrich.

President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden have canceled a planned trip to Rehoboth, Delaware and will remain in Washington, D.C. for the time being. The change of plans was announced as Biden and other Democratic leaders try to rally enough support among progressives to pass the bipartisan infrastructure bill in a vote tonight.
Fox News' Jacqui Heinrich reported the Biden was personally calling progressive holdouts who are considering voting down the bill.


About 20 members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus are prepared to vote no on the bipartisan infrastructure bill, a progressive source told Fox News' Jacqui Heinrich.


According to Fox News' Chad Pergram, a "large coalition" of progressive lawmakers are threatening to vote against the bipartisan infrastructure bill.
Democratic leaders are set to bring the infrastructure bill up for a vote Friday against the wishes of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, whose members say the House should vote on the infrastructure bill and the social spending bill at the same time.
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer expressed confidence about the state of play on President Biden's infrastructure and social spending bills. The House will vote on the bipartisan infrastructure bill tonight, but leaders were forced to delay a vote on the spending bill.
Hoyer told reporters the House's scheduled debate and vote on the reconciliation "rule" for the spending bill later Friday would be a "giant step forward" toward passage, even though Democrats won't yet vote on whether to pass the bill itself.

“I’m absolutely convinced, beyond a doubt, that before Thanksgiving, the week of the 15th, we will pass the Build Back Better legislation," Hoyer said.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Democratic leaders “had hoped to be able bring both bills to the floor today," but opted to “honor requests” from some lawmakers for more clarity on the legislation's financial implications.
Pelosi said she expected many progressives to vote in favor of the bipartisan infrastructure bill, despite their stance that both bills should be brought up for a vote at the same time.
“The fact is, we believed it is necessary to pass the [infrastructure bill] so that these jobs can come online as soon as possible," Pelosi said.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi moved to save face with a procedural vote on Democrats' reconciliation bill Friday after an effort to pass it stalled yet again when a small group of moderates demanded the House wait for scores from the Congressional Budget Office.
But that plan, which includes a vote on the infrastructure bill as well, may also backfire on top Democrats due to progressive opposition to passing infrastructure without reconciliation. 
The Congressional Progressive Caucus reiterated that "dozens" of its members want to vote on both the bipartisan infrastructure bill and Biden spending bill together. The group said it was willing to hold off on votes to satisfy requests from some Democratic lawmakers that the Congressional Budget Office "score" the spending bill first.
“However, if our six colleagues still want to wait for a CBO score, we would agree to give them that time — after which point we can vote on both bills together," the caucus said in a statement.

This stance appears to conflict with timing provided by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other leaders. The House is set to debate the procedural "rule" for the spending bill this afternoon, and then vote on whether to pass the bipartisan infrastructure bill.
The chamber is not expected to vote on the spending bill today. It remains unclear if progressives will vote for the bipartisan infrastructure bill on its own.
Read the Congressional Progressive Caucus' full statement here:
“As we’ve consistently said, there are dozens of our members who want to vote both bills — the Build Back Better Act and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act — out of the House together. We now understand that there are six Democratic members who want to have a formal CBO score on Build Back Better before voting.

“A full accounting of the spending and revenue has been provided by the White House, numerous pieces of the legislation have already been scored, and the JCT has put out analysis that Build Back Better will contribute to reducing the deficit. 
“However, if our six colleagues still want to wait for a CBO score, we would agree to give them that time — after which point we can vote on both bills together.”
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's letter to Democratic colleagues indicates leadership no longer plans to bring the social spending bill up for a vote on Friday.
Read the full letter below:
Dear Democratic Colleague, 
It is with enormous respect for the greatness and patience of our House Democratic Members that I write to describe a path forward For The People. 
In order to make progress on the President’s vision it is important that we advance the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework and the Build Back Better Act today. 

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework rule and debate have already happened.  Now, we will bring to the Floor the BIF and a rule for consideration of the Build Back Better Act.  
The agenda that we are advancing is transformative and historic, hence challenging.  
Thank you for your leadership For The People.

House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., told members Friday afternoon that the House plans to vote on both the procedural rule to advance Democrats' reconciliation spending bill and the infrastructure bill.
That is a change from the morning, when Democrats planned to vote on infrastructure, the rule for reconciliation and the reconciliation bill all in the same day.
A "rule" in the House is what brings a bill to the floor ahead of a final vote.
It appears this is a move to make at least some progress on President Biden's agenda despite the fact some moderate Democrats are refusing to vote to pass the reconciliation bill without a score from the Congressional Budget Office.
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., informed lawmakers will begin debate on the reconciliation "rule" for the spending bill, dubbed the Build Back Better Act, on Friday afternoon at approximately 3:15 p.m. ET. Democratic leaders have yet to specify when lawmakers will vote on the spending bill itself.
Following the debate on the rule, lawmakers will vote on whether to pass the bipartisan infrastructure bill.
According to Fox News' Kelly Phares, Congressional Black Caucus Chairwoman Rep. Joyce Beatty, D-Ohio, said Friday that the House of Representatives will vote on a rule to advance Democrats' reconciliation bill today, and the bipartisan infrastructure bill.
But it took mere minutes for a senior leadership source to shoot down Beatty's suggestion, telling Fox News' Chad Pergram that is "what Joyce Beatty thinks we should do."

A vote on the reconciliation rule would allow Democrats to claim progress without actually passing the reconciliation bill itself. It's not clear whether members would be on board with such a plan.
After the false alarm, the House continues its holding pattern.

House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy argued Thursday that Democrats are not learning their lesson from the elections in New Jersey and Virginia this week, which Republicans argue amounted to a rejection of progressive policies in Democrats' reconciliation bill. 
"Tuesday's results show an important truth. Voters from Virginia to Texas to Seattle to Minneapolis to New Jersey sent a mandate to their elected officials, stop catering to the progressive left," McCarthy, R-Calif., said. 
He added: "You got thousands of millions of voters who just gave you a very clear message, and where are the Democrats today? Breaking their own rules, setting new records of just keeping votes open, and trying to intimidate and bully members to vote for something. … The vote today is rushed and irresponsible." 

Top Democrats projected confidence late Thursday night that they would be able to jam through their reconciliation spending bill and the infrastructure bill in the same day – legislation amounting to a whopping $3 trillion. 
But a handful of moderate Democrats who are demanding scores from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) before voting on reconciliation are holding up any vote. As a side effect of the delay, a motion to adjourn in the House put forward by Republicans was held open for well over four hours, setting a record for the longest roll call vote in House history. 


House Majority Whip Rep. Jim Clyburn, D-S.C., said Friday that "there will be forward movement" on Democrats' reconciliation bill, according to Fox News' Liz Frieden.
Clyburn made the comment while walking into the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.

It is unclear exactly what that progress would look like. Moderate Democrats appear to be in a position to delay any vote on the reconciliation bill until they get Congressional Budget Office (CBO) scores for it.
The House's original plan today was to burn through two hours of debate on the reconciliation bill, then take votes on a rule to advance the reconciliation bill, the reconciliation bill itself, and the bipartisan infrastructure bill.


Progressive House members are making their displeasure with their moderate counterparts known Friday as the chamber slogs through its sixth consecutive hour of a vote on a motion to adjourn.

That vote is being held open because despite optimism from party leadership, it appears Democrats will not have the votes to pass their reconciliation bill Friday thanks to a few moderate holdouts. Those members are asking for the chamber to wait for Congressional Budget Office (CBO) scores on the bill.
"Can’t wait for the full on slammed news cycle about how conservative Dems held up Biden’s bill the week of the elections for sudden demands for CBO scores and tax cuts for people with $1 million+ incomes," Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., tweeted "[W]on't hold my breath for it though."
".@POTUS has asked House Democrats to vote for both bills today—for the American people. I hope the small handful of my colleagues who have not yet committed to voting for these broadly popular bills will do the right thing," Rep. Mondaire Jones, D-N.Y., tweeted.

"Seriously, I think it’s more likely I will get calls from constituents asking what the CBO is rather than asking for a CBO score. Let’s go," Rep. Mark Pocan, D-Wis., said in response to the possibility the CBO scores could take multiple weeks to come back.
Rep. Peter Meijer, R-Mich., shot back, saying that Pocan should not be so dismissive of CBO scores.
"The right answer here is to inform constituents on the important work the Congressional Budget Office does to ensure their representative in Congress understands the fiscal impact prior to voting on legislation," Meijer said. "Or you can vote blindly and wait to find out what it does later."
Unless moderates agree to back off of their demand for CBO scores -- or something else changes -- it appears lawmakers will have little to do Friday afternoon but tweet.
It will take weeks for the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to produce a score for Democrats' reconciliation bill -- potentially until Thanksgiving.
"The Congressional Budget Office has not shown the American people exactly how much this bill will cost as required by the Congressional Budget Act and the rules of our House," Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., said Friday as he railed against the reconciliation bill.

"And the CBO reports that they will only arrive as American families get an enormous receipt from their Thanksgiving dinner. There will not be a CBO score until Thanksgiving," he added.
According to its website, "On average, it takes about two weeks for CBO to produce a formal estimate, although sometimes estimates are produced the same day they are requested and occasionally the period extends to several weeks."
Notably, the 2,000-plus page reconciliation bill is larger than most legislation the CBO considers.
But House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., Thursday said there is a chance the estimate could come quickly.
"We have been all along... we've been sending things to CBO. This is not new to them," Pelosi said. "The CBO also has been… They have most of the information now they have new information."
The CBO did not respond to a request for comment from Fox News Friday.

A handful of Democrats are withholding their votes on the reconciliation bill because there is not yet a CBO score -- only scoring from the Joint Committee on Taxation and the White House. Democrats can only lose three votes and still pass the bill.
If moderates stick to their demand of a CBO score before voting on reconciliation, that means the Senate will not get its hands on the bill until almost December. Then, Democrats will also be up against deadlines to fund the government, pass a defense authorization bill, and avoid a debt default.
From Fox News' Chad Pergram:
We’ve heard for weeks about Sens. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., and Kyrsten Sinema, D-Ariz. 
How about “The Others.” 
It’s the “others” who are causing a problem for House Democrats today as they try to advance the social spending bill. 
Democrats need most if not all of these “others” if they’re going to pass their bill and only have a three vote turning radius. 
Some of those “others” are Rep. Stephanie Murphy, D-Fla., leader of the Blue Dogs, Reps. Tom O’Halleran, D-Ariz., Kurt Schrader, D-Ore., Scott Peters, D-Calif., Kathleen Rice, D-N.Y., Ed Case, D-Hawaii, Ron Kind, D-Wis., Carolyn Bordeaux, D-Ga., and others. 
There are concerns about the cost of the bill, the CBO score – which won’t be available for weeks – and changes in the prescription drug language. 

Democrats thought the evaluations from the Treasury Department, White House and Joint Committee on Taxation would satisfy some of the members who had reservations. But apparently not. At least not yet.


The House of Representatives has been in a holding pattern all morning as Democrats, apparently lacking votes to pass their reconciliation bill, held open a GOP vote to adjourn for hours.
And now that vote is the longest in House of Representatives history, according to Fox News' Chad Pergram.

The vote started shortly after 8 a.m. and has now dragged for over three-and-a-half hours.
"This is the longest vote held open in the history of Congress, just because they don't have the votes on the bill today," House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., said Friday as he slammed Democrats for their reconciliation bill.


Fox News' Chad Pergram breaks down the status of Democrats' talks on their massive reconciliation spending bill and the bipartisan infrastructure bill.
Fox News' Hillary Vaughn reports that shortly after 11 a.m. Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-N.J., went into the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.

"We're working on it," Gottheimer told reporters as he entered.
Gottheimer was one of five House Democrats on the Tuesday letter that demanded scoring for the bill, 72 hours to read it and pre-conferencing with the Senate.
A spokesperson for Gottheimer told Fox News Thursday he is fine with just Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) scoring for the bill. But other moderates are demanding Congressional Budget Office (CBO) scoring instead.


President Biden in remarks Friday said that he will be calling lawmakers to encourage them to vote for his reconciliation spending bill, as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and other Hill Democrats struggle to round up the votes.

"The second way to make sure recovery is fully felt is to pass my bipartisan infrastructure agreement and my Build Back Better plan which is being debated now," Biden said. "And I'm gonna be headed over there shortly after I do this press conference back to my office to make some calls."
Biden added: "I'm asking every House member... to vote 'yes' on both of these bills right now. Send the infrastructure bill to my desk. Send the Build Back Better bill to the Senate. Let's build an incredible economic progress." 
Biden ignored reporter questions, including on whether the House should vote on reconciliation without a CBO score.


From Fox News' Chad Pergram:
Just to give you a sense of how long this is going to take today and where this is all headed.
The House began voting precisely two hours ago on a motion to adjourn by the GOP. That vote is STILL open.
Also, there will be a lot of body language and tea leaf reading today.

Ran into Rep. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), the head of the moderate Blue Dogs and Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-NY) in the basement of the Capitol. I asked them both where things stood. They were speaking in hushed tones and would not even acknowledge my presence. I asked Rice what she thought of the SALT proposal. She did not respond at all.


Rep. Ron Kind, D-Wis., said Friday that Democrats are hung up on whether to pass the reconciliation bill without a CBO score, as some moderates demand a vote be delayed until a score is released.
"You have to have a CBO score with the senate anyway. And I imagine as everyone does there is going to be some changes made on the senate side so we’ll have time," Kind said according to Fox News' Liz Friden.
House Republicans plan to use the procedural delay tactics at their disposal Friday to interfere with Democrats' plans to pass their massive reconciliation spending bill and the infrastructure bill.
A notice from Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., told members to expect "Republican procedural votes... throughout the day."
Republicans did not wait long before calling for a vote on a motion to adjourn, which has dragged on for nearly an hour and 20 minutes.
Fox News' Chad Pergram reports there is not yet any guidance on timing for votes on the reconciliation bill or the infrastructure bill.

There appear to be a handful of moderate holdouts remaining, but Fox News' Kelly Phares reports that Democratic leaders are confident they can round up the votes needed to pass both bills Friday.

Top House Democrats are confident that they can pass their massive reconciliation spending bill Friday after major progress in their negotiations late Thursday – but a few moderate holdouts with procedural demands remain, and their votes will be key to whether Democrats can indeed get the bill through. 
Reps. Josh Gottheimer, D-N.J., Jared Golden, D-Maine, Stephanie Murphy, D-Fla., Kurt Schrader, D-Ore., and Ed Case, D-Hawaii, all signed a letter Tuesday demanding 72 hours to review the final bill text, "the proper CBO/JCT scoring information" and clearance with the Senate that the bill will not be changed once the House passes it.
There is a Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) score for the bill, but the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has released nothing, and it's not clear when it will. There's been no effort to pre-conference the bill with the Senate, and it is now widely expected the upper chamber will make significant changes to it.

There's been no effort to work with the Senate to make sure it won't change the bill after it passes the House – known as pre-conferencing – and it is now widely expected the upper chamber will make significant changes to it.
There were changes made to the bill late Thursday night in the House Rules Committee, meaning 72 hours with the final bill text would be late Sunday night. 
"While there has been progress to address some of his concerns, there remain significant issues he is still working to address in the substance of the bill," a spokesman for Rep. Jared Golden, D-Maine, told Fox News Thursday. "That is in addition to the conditions he laid out earlier this week… around a CBO score, time to review, and pre-conferencing. I think you’ll agree those conditions have not been met."
Case also told CNN he is sticking by the position laid out in the Tuesday letter and wants a CBO score. 

Gottheimer was more equivocal in Thursday comments, and a spokesman told Fox News the JCT score would be enough for him to satisfy his scoring-related concerns about the bill.
Despite those apparently outstanding concerns, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., told members Thursday the chamber will vote on both the reconciliation bill and the bipartisan infrastructure bill. Fox News reached out to the offices of all five members – Gottheimer, Golden, Murphy, Schrader and Case – late Thursday after Hoyer's announcement. None answered whether they will vote for reconciliation Thursday. 


From Fox News' Paul Steinhauser and Megan Henney:
While congressional Democrats work overtime to pass a massive social spending and human infrastructure package, some of the most recent public opinion polling indicates the bill may not have the support of most Americans.

And while specific provisions included in the overall proposal appear to be popular with much of the public, surveys suggest that many people feel the measure won’t improve the economy or positively impact their own lives.
Americans were divided (34% to 34%) on whether both bills would help or hurt the economy, according to an ABC News/Ipsos poll conducted Oct. 29-30. About a quarter of those surveyed were unsure of how the measures, which cost roughly $3 trillion combined, would impact the nation’s economy.

But when it comes to their own personal finances, more Americans say they're concerned about potential ramifications from the spending packages. The poll indicated that a plurality of respondents, or about 32%, said the bills will hurt people like them if they become law, compared to a quarter who thought the measures would help them. Nearly a fifth questioned said the bills would make no difference in their lives, with a quarter not sure.   
Reps. Josh Gottheimer, D-N.J., Thomas Suozzi, D-N.Y., and Mike Sherrill, D-N.J., in a late night statement Wednesday lauded a last-second change to the cap on state and local tax (SALT) deductions for Americans in high-tax states.
"We have been fighting this unfair, targeted tax since its inception in 2017. This agreement to address the cap on our State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction will effectively eliminate the undue burden for nearly all of the families in our districts who’ve been unfairly double taxed for the last four years," the trio said.

"This fix will put money back in the pockets of hardworking, middle class families in our districts and help ensure that our local communities can continue making the investments that we need. We’re confident that with this agreement, we can move forward on this crucially important package," they added.
They were among several lawmakers in both the House and Senate who wanted to get rid of the cap, which Republicans put in place under former President Donald Trump, and therefore give their constituents tax relief.
But Republicans and progressives attacked the idea of removing the SALT cap because its effect would be giving a major tax break mostly to rich people.
The late Wednesday fix, done via manager's amendment in the House Rules Committee, would increase the cap from $10,000 to $80,000, apparently in an effort to allow middle-class earners to take advantage of the deduction while still hitting extremely high earners.

It remains to be seen whether this agreement in the House bill will fly in the Senate.
Democratic leaders are on track to bring both President Biden’s social spending bill and the bipartisan infrastructure bill up for votes on Friday following weeks of intense negotiations with progressive and moderate holdouts.

The House Rules Committee is slated to meet throughout the night to finalize the text of Biden’s spending bill, dubbed the "Build Back Better Act." The legislation is expected to outline roughly $1.75 trillion in spending over a 10-year period.
When the bill is finalized, the House will debate and vote on the "rule" for the spending bill and then vote on whether to pass the bill itself. House lawmakers will also vote on the bipartisan infrastructure bill, which is focused on physical projects. The House already debated the infrastructure bill, likely fast-tracking a final vote.
A group of climate change protesters boasted about blockading Democratic West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin's car on Thursday, accusing the moderate lawmaker of trying to run them over in his attempt to drive through a parking garage.
Media highlight his role in Taliban deal
EXCLUSIVE: Former President Donald Trump slammed the Biden administration’s "surrender" of Afghanistan, warning that China could take hold over Bagram Air Base.
In an exclusive interview with Fox News, Trump accused the Biden administration of intentionally trying to move on from the withdrawal and its ongoing aftermath.
TRUMP SLAMS 'RUSHED' AFGHANISTAN WITHDRAWAL, BLAMES 'INCOMPETENT' BIDEN
"They don’t talk about it anymore. They don’t talk about it, purposely," Trump said. "It was so bad that it was killing him. Two, three days after it ended, they stopped even mentioning it."
"What they did with the so-called withdrawal, which was really a surrender, what they did, it was the most embarrassing, horrible thing, and I don’t know that we ever psychologically recover from that," Trump said.
Trump, during his administration, brokered a deal with the Taliban for a May 2021 troop withdrawal.
"Don’t forget, I’m the one that brought it down to 2,500 troops," Trump said. "I would have been out too, but we would have been out with strength. We would have come out with strength."
Trump told Fox News that even while he planned to eventually withdraw from Afghanistan, he would have maintained hold over the Parwan Detention Facility—a military prison at the Bagram Air Base.
MILLEY, MCKENZIE SAY THEY RECOMMENDED 2,500 TROOPS STAY IN AFGHANISTAN, AFTER BIDEN CLAIMS HE WAS NEVER TOLD
The Biden administration removed all U.S. forces from Bagram in July. The Pentagon announced in August that the Taliban had freed "thousands" of ISIS-K prisoners from the prison.
"We would have kept Bagram because it is next to China," Trump explained. "And it is one hour away from their nuclear facility, and we gave that up too." 
He added: "And now China’s going to take over Bagram, in my opinion."
TRUMP WARNS TALIBAN WILL USE US GOGGLES FOR 'NIGHT FIGHTING,' SHIP EQUIPMENT TO CHINA TO BE 'RE-ENGINEERED'
Meanwhile, Trump blasted the Biden administration for pulling the military out first, amid reports of hundreds of American citizens and U.S. visa holders remaining in Afghanistan under Taliban rule.
"We would have gotten all the people out, we would have brought all of our equipment out, we wouldn’t have had dead soldiers, we wouldn’t have soldiers missing arms and legs—because people don’t even talk about that—we lost 13, but we have many that have been gravely wounded," Trump said. "None of that would have happened." 
He added: "It was time to get out, but the way he got out was such a disaster." 
Trump went on to say that he holds "the generals responsible because they should have never allowed that to happen."
"They must have been able to talk [Biden] into reason," Trump said. "But you have to hold them responsible also for allowing that to happen." 
PENTAGON: 'NO QUESTION' AFGHANISTAN WITHDRAWAL MAKES IDENTIFYING TERROR THREATS MORE DIFFICULT
Top military officials — head of U.S. Central Command Gen. Kenneth McKenzie and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley — testified in September that they recommended maintaining a presence of at least 2,500 U.S. troops in Afghanistan.
Biden and White House officials have said repeatedly that no military leaders advised him to leave a small military presence behind, with the president, himself, telling ABC News in August that "no one" recommended a 2,500 troop presence that he could "recall."  
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin was asked whether the president received the personal recommendations from his top military advisers like Milley and McKenzie. 
"Their input was received by the president and considered by the president for sure," Austin testified in September.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
A federal judicial panel has assigned the 6th Circuit Appeals Court in Cincinnati to handle over 30 cases filed around the country challenging the Biden administration's effort to mandate employers force their employees to take the COVID-19 vaccine or get tested weekly.
The appeals court in Cincinnati was randomly selected, but ultimately removes the matter from the 5th Circuit Appeals Court in New Orleans, where earlier this month a three-judge panel blocked the Biden administration from proceeding with the rule.
It’s not immediately clear which judges on the 6th Circuit will hear the matter.
SENATE REPUBLICANS TO FORMALLY CHALLENGE BIDEN OSHA VACCINE MANDATE
The Department of Justice said in response to the 5th Circuit decision that it will "vigorously defend" the rules laid out by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), which go into effect Jan. 4, 2022.

      Biden speaks about the bipartisan infrastructure bill in the State Dinning Room of the White House, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2021, in Washington.
      (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
"This decision is just the beginning of the process for review of this important OSHA standard," a spokesperson told Fox News this week. "The Department will continue to vigorously defend the standard and looks forward to obtaining a definitive resolution following consolidation of all of the pending cases for further review." 
5th Circuit Judge Kurt Engelhardt said concern over economic uncertainty and opposition to a sweeping vaccine mandate meant the stay was in the public’s best interest.
"The public interest is also served by maintaining our constitutional structure and maintaining the liberty of individuals to make intensely personal decisions according to their own convictions - even, or perhaps particularly, when those decisions frustrate government officials," Engelhardt wrote.
At least 27 courts filed challenges in a move to block the Nov. 4 federal vaccine mandate.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
EXCLUSIVE: All 50 Senate Republicans on Wednesday morning are expected to formally challenge the Biden administration’s vaccine rule for private businesses under the Congressional Review Act – the official process for Congress to eliminate an executive branch rule.
GOP Sen. Mike Braun of Indiana will lead all 49 of his Senate Republican colleagues, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, in moving to strike down the Biden administration’s rule which mandates employees at private businesses with 100 workers or more to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 by Jan. 4 or be subject to weekly testing and mask-wearing.
SENATE REPUBLICANS TO DISSAPROVE, NULLIFY BIDEN VACCINE MANDATE ON PRIVATE EMPLOYEES
"President Biden’s vaccine mandate is an unconstitutional invasion of what should be a personal medical decision for every American and an affront to the rights of 80 million American workers," Braun told Fox News. "Today, my Republican colleagues and I will formally challenge this federal overreach, and I urge the Senate to vote in favor of this disapproval resolution when it comes to the Floor for a filibuster-proof, simple-majority vote in early December."
The Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) COVID-19 vaccine rule, which is set to impact roughly 84 million employees, was formally introduced earlier this month. The rule also requires that employers provide paid time for employees to get vaccines and mandates that all unvaccinated employees wear a face mask in the workplace.
Businesses that fail to comply with the mandate could face fines reaching as much as $14,000 per violation, with the potential for multiple citations. The OSHA rule will also "preempt any inconsistent state or local laws, including laws that ban or limit an employer’s authority to require vaccination, masks, or testing," the White House said.
Braun, the top Republican on the Senate Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety, which has jurisdiction over OSHA, slammed the Biden administration for "heavy-handed government."
The Congressional Review Act (CRA) can be used by Congress to overturn certain federal agency regulations and actions through a joint resolution of disapproval. If a CRA joint resolution of disapproval is approved by both houses of Congress and signed by the president, or if Congress successfully overrides a presidential veto, the rule at issue is invalidated.
OSHA VACCINE, TEST RULES WILL PROTECT WORKERS, HELP ECONOMY: LABOR SECRETARY MARTY WALSH
The formal mandate was transmitted into the Federal Registry and to the Senate on Nov. 16, beginning a "20 day clock," according to GOP aides, and setting the stage for a Senate floor vote as early as December.
During that 20-day period, the disapproval is reviewed in the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. At the end of the 20 days, the formal disapproval will be eligible for a vote on the Senate floor — a vote that Braun will be responsible for scheduling.
With support from all 50 Republican senators, a GOP aide told Fox News that "just one Democratic defection" would pass the disapproval resolution in the Senate.
"If this level of support holds in the House, it would force President Biden to veto a disapproval resolution for his mandate that has already been under siege in the courts and the court of public opinion," the aide told Fox News. "As President Biden tries to pass ‘transformational’ change through reconciliation with a simple majority vote, it would force him to veto a simple majority disapproval of his unconstitutional vaccine mandate for businesses."
DOJ SAYS IT WILL 'VIGOROUSLY DEFEND' BIDEN OSHA COVID-19 VACCINE MANDATE IN COURT
Braun is joined by McConnell, Sens. John Thune, John Barrasso, Roy Blunt, Joni Ernst, Rick Scott, Marsha Blackburn, John Boozman, Richard Burr, Shelley Moore Capito, Bill Cassidy, Susan Collins, John Cornyn, Tom Cotton, Kevin Cramer, Mike Carpo, Ted Cruz, Steve Daines, Deb Fischer, Lindsey Graham, Chuck Grassley, Bill Hagerty, Josh Hawley, John Hoeven, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Jim Inhofe, Ron Johnson, John Kennedy, James Lankford, Mike Lee, Cynthia Lummis, Roger Marshall, Jerry Moran, Lisa Murkowski, Rand Paul, Rob Portman, Jim Risch, Mitt Romney, Mike Rounds, Marco Rubio, Ben Sasse, Tim Scott, Richard Shelby, Dan Sullivan, Thom Tillis, Pat Toomey, Tommy Tuberville, Roger Wicker and Todd Young.
"Republicans are united against President Biden’s vaccine mandate for businesses, but this federal overreach is not a partisan issue, and the mass firings and worsening labor shortages that will result from this mandate are affecting Americans in all 50 states," Braun told Fox News. "I encourage Americans to make their voice heard to their representatives on this issue, and we welcome any Democratic member of the Senate to join us in overturning this unconstitutional mandate causing turmoil across the country." 
The OSHA rule stems from Biden’s vaccine mandate he announced in September, which extended to 80 million private sector workers, and additional mandates for employees of the federal government and contractors.
The mandate for private sector employees requires them to be vaccinated or produce "at-least-weekly" negative COVID-19 test results before coming to work. The federal employee and contractor mandate does not include the option of weekly testing rather than taking a vaccine.

      Sen. Mike Braun. R-Ind., speaks during a Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies hearing June 23, 2021, on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. 
      (Sarah Silbiger-Pool/Getty Images)
At this point, at least 27 courts filed challenges in a move to block the mandate. 
The Justice Department has said it will "vigorously defend" the OSHA guidelines, after a decision by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals last week to uphold a stay on the order. 
"This decision is just the beginning of the process for review of this important OSHA standard," a DOJ spokesperson told Fox News. "The Department will continue to vigorously defend the standard and looks forward to obtaining a definitive resolution following consolidation of all of the pending cases for further review."
Last week, the appeals court granted an emergency stay on the OSHA orders, blocking them from taking effect. 
The Biden administration countered the move and argued the court’s decision could "cost dozens or even hundreds of lives per day."
"With the reopening of workplaces and the emergence of the highly transmissible Delta variant, the threat to workers is ongoing and overwhelming," lawyers representing the administration argued in court filings. 
But Judge Kurt Engelhardt said concern over economic uncertainty and opposition to a sweeping vaccine mandate meant the stay was in the public’s best interest.
"The public interest is also served by maintaining our constitutional structure and maintaining the liberty of individuals to make intensely personal decisions according to their own convictions - even, or perhaps particularly, when those decisions frustrate government officials," he wrote.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Former UN Ambassador Nikki Haley tells America to 'wake up' on 'The Story' and Rep. Claudia Tenney, R-N.Y., weighs in on Congress' 'iron ladies.'
EXCLUSIVE: Former Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley on Monday blasted President Biden’s upcoming virtual meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping, saying the U.S. president must address China’s transgressions or else appear weak to the rest of the world.
"President Biden’s failed foreign policy already has the world questioning his judgment," Haley, who served during the Trump administration, told Fox News in a statement. "Anything short of defending Taiwan’s democracy, calling out China’s genocide, and demanding answers as to why China is funding the Ayatollah by importing Iranian oil is weakness." 
BIDEN PREPARES TO MEET WITH XI JINPING AMID 'CONCERNS' OVER CHINA'S ACTIONS

      Nikki Haley, former ambassador to the United Nations, waves after speaking during the Republican Jewish Coalition (RJC) Annual Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S., on Saturday, Nov. 6, 2021. (Bridget Bennett/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
      
Biden is set to meet virtually with Xi on Monday evening , as the Biden administration works to stabilize the relationship between the U.S. and China. It will be their third engagement since February.
The White House announced the meeting Friday, saying that the two leaders "will discuss ways to responsibly manage the competition between the United States and the PRC, as well as ways to work together where our interests align." 
CHINESE AGGRESSION TOWARD TAIWAN TESTING US RESOLVE IN WAKE OF AFGHANISTAN WITHDRAWAL, EXPERTS SAY
"Throughout, President Biden will make clear U.S. intentions and priorities and be clear and candid about our concerns with the PRC," the White House said.
China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson confirmed the meeting for Monday evening, saying that it is "hoped that the U.S. can work with China toward the same direction and make concerted efforts to make the heads-of-state meeting a success," which, the spokesperson said, "will steer the China-US relationship back to the right track of sound and steady development."

      Former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, R-S.C., speaks during a campaign event for Virginia gubernatorial candidate Glenn Youngkin on July 14, 2021 in McLean, Virginia. (Win McNamee/Getty Images)
      
Multiple reports have said Xi plans to invite Biden to the Beijing Winter Olympics in February, but the White House has declined to answer questions on whether the U.S. will send officials to the games amid widespread calls for a boycott.
"The United States must boycott the Olympics completely," Haley told Fox News on Monday. "That includes our president. Attending sends a message that America is willing to turn a blind eye as Communist China commits genocide."
REPUBLICANS ACCUSE JOHN KERRY OF LOBBYING AGAINST UYGHUR FORCED LABOR BAN AS US, CHINA ENTER CLIMATE AGREEMENT
Haley’s Stand for America advocacy group issued a blog post Monday morning calling on Biden to condemn China’s ongoing genocide of its minority Uyghur population in Xinjiang, as well as the Communist country’s "cover-ups" on the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic.
"What are we expecting? More of Biden’s specialty: foreign policy weakness," the post read. "Biden’s team is more focused on making deals with China’s communist leaders than standing against them."

      Nikki Haley, former ambassador to the United Nations, speaks during the Iowa GOP Lincoln Dinner in Des Moines, Iowa, U.S., on Thursday, June 24, 2021. (Rachel Mummey/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
      
Haley wrote an op-ed for Fox News in February saying Xi wants the "propaganda boost" of the Olympic games to distract from his country’s human rights atrocities, which she compared to the Holocaust.
"Symbolism matters, and if the United States and other free nations participate in Beijing 2022, the Chinese Communist Party will claim it as further proof of China’s good global standing and world leadership," she wrote at the time. "But if the United States boycotts the Winter Olympics, it will send an unmistakable message that China’s tyranny and threats are unacceptable. It will show that actions have consequences."
Fox News' Brooke Singman contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
‘Gutfeld!’ host and panel discuss Southwest Airlines drama after pilot broadcasts anti-Biden chant.
NASCAR is attempting to distance itself from the online "Let’s Go Brandon" trend that was birthed at one of its races saying it does not want to associate itself with politics of the "left or right."
"It’s an unfortunate situation and I feel for Brandon, I feel for Kelli," Steve Phelps, NASCAR's president, said Friday in comments that were confirmed by NASCAR to Fox News.  "I think, unfortunately, it speaks to the state of where we are as a country. We do not want to associate ourselves with politics, the left or the right."
CHANTS OF 'F--- JOE BIDEN' RAIN DOWN FROM NASCAR STANDS DURING INTERVIEW WITH TALLADEGA WINNER
Additionally, Phelps said that NASCAR will crack down on social media users who use its logo to promote the trend. 
"We will pursue whoever (is using logos) and get that stuff," Phelps said. "That’s not OK. It’s not OK that you’re using our trademarks illegally, regardless of whether we agree with what the position is."

      FORT WORTH, TEXAS - OCTOBER 16: A NASCAR fan holds a "Lets Go Brandon" sign during the NASCAR Xfinity Series Andy's Frozen Custard 335 at Texas Motor Speedway on October 16, 2021 in Fort Worth, Texas. (Photo by Chris Graythen/Getty Images)
      
Phelps added that he is not pleased with the fact that the popular chant started at one of NASCAR’s races.
"Do we like the fact that it kind of started with NASCAR and then is gaining ground out elsewhere? No, we're not happy about that," Phelps said.
‘LET’S GO BRANDON’ IRKS THE LEFT, BUT LIBERALS WERE CELEBRATED FOR VULGAR RHETORIC DURING PRIOR ADMINISTRATION
The controversy began in early October when NBC reporter Kelli Stavast interviewed NASCAR Xfinity Series driver Brandon Brown after he captured his first race victory at Alabama’s Talladega Superspeedway.
During the interview, Trump supporters and Biden critics broke out into a chat of "F--- Joe Biden" which could clearly be heard by NBC’s cameras.
Stavast, in an apparent attempt to steer the interview away from politics, reported that the crowd was really chanting, "Let’s Go Brandon!"
At that moment, the internet turned the reporter’s misstatement into a viral cultural mainstay with Americans all across the country chanting the phrase "Let’s Go Brandon" at sporting events, including it in viral pranks, billboards, memes, and the phrase even made it on the dress of a Republican congresswoman. 
"It’s not a phrase, it’s a movement!" Rep. Lauren Boebert tweeted earlier this week along with a photo of her with former President Trump wearing a dress emblazoned with "Let’s Go Brandon."
NASCAR has dipped its toes into politics multiple times over the past several years including appearances at races by former President Donald Trump, banning Confederate flags at races, and promoting the Black Lives Matter movement.

      FORT WORTH, TEXAS - JULY 19: The #32 Trump 2020 Ford, driven by Corey LaJoie, waits on the grid prior to the NASCAR Cup Series O'Reilly Auto Parts 500 at Texas Motor Speedway on July 19, 2020 in Fort Worth, Texas. (Photo by Chris Graythen/Getty Images)
      
NASCAR did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Fox News.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter @andymarkmiller and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
GOP candidate Tudor Dixon explained how potentially axing the L5 pipeline project could 'endanger lives' and elevate already-high energy costs.
Michigan gubernatorial candidate Tudor Dixon warned axing the Line 5 pipeline project could "endanger lives" as the Biden administration reportedly considers shutting down the project. Dixon joined "The Faulkner Focus" on Tuesday to discuss the implications of what the potential shutdown could mean for Michiganders across the state, specifically in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. 
BIDEN ADMIN CONSIDERING SHUTTING DOWN MICHIGAN PIPELINE, DRAWING CRITICISM AND DIRE WARNINGS AS WINTER NEARS
TUDOR DIXON: Michiganders right now are wondering, is Joe Biden going to bow to the radical progressives and endanger them this winter? Or will he fight against these extremists and their make-believe environmental issue? Because a lot of people aren't talking about what this really means for the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. One in five homes is heated by propane. These are our working class Americans, our working class Michiganders in the UP. That propane- 100% of it comes from Line 5. This just-in-time energy has got to be there for our people who live in an area that is below freezing for months out of the year, and Harris, we're going into those months right now. That energy secretary you just spoke of, that's a former governor of Michigan, and here she is, laughing about the fact that this could put people in a situation that endangers their lives.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Florida Attorney General: This is unlawful, unconstitutional and completely obliterates the separation of powers.
Democratic Kansas Gov. Laura Kelly came out against President Biden’s vaccine mandate as one that is not the "most effective" or "correct" for her state. 
"Yesterday, I reviewed the new vaccine mandate from the Biden Administration. While I appreciate the intention to keep people safe, a goal I share, I don’t believe this directive is the correct, or the most effective, solution for Kansas," she said in a statement released Friday. 
"States have been leading the fight against COVID-19 from the start of the pandemic. It is too late to impose a federal standard now that we have already developed systems and strategies that are tailored for our specific needs," she continued. 
Biden directed all private companies with 100 employees or more to enforce a vaccine requirement starting Jan 4. 

      Democrat Governor Laura Kelly delivers her inaugural speech is front of the steps of the Kansas State Capitol building Topeka, Kansas, January 14, 2019. (Photo by Mark Reinstein/Corbis via Getty Images)
      
The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Saturday, however, granted an emergency stay of the vaccine requirement by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration. 
Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry said the action stops Biden "from moving forward with his unlawful overreach."

      President Biden speaks about the authorization of the COVID-19 vaccine for children ages 5-11, in the South Court Auditorium on the White House campus on Nov. 3, 2021 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
      (Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
"The president will not impose medical procedures on the American people without the checks and balances afforded by the constitution," a statement from Landry, a Republican, said.
Biden’s vaccine mandate for businesses was hit with fierce and immediate pushback earlier this year when it was first announced. 
Republicans hit back at the mandate when it was first announced in September as "unconstitutional."

      Kansas Gov. Laura Kelly speaks to reporters during a Statehouse news conference in Topeka, Kan. Democratic Party leaders want to oust Democratic state Rep.-elect Aaron Coleman, D-Kansas City, over a tweet he made criticizing the governor that they view as threatening. Coleman admitted to circulating revenge porn and was charged at the age of 14 with threatening to shoot a high school student. (AP Photo/John Hanna)
      
As for Kelly, she said she will "seek a resolution" on vaccine mandates that "continues to recognize the uniqueness of our state and builds on our on-going efforts to combat a once-in-a-century crisis." 
Kelly is up for reelection next year. GOP challenger Kansas Attorney General Derek Schmidt's campaign team hit back in a statement on Kelly's remarks, saying she has remained quiet on Biden's vaccine mandate for two months, while Schmidt has been fighting the mandate. 
"Attorney General Schmidt has been fighting Joe Biden's mandates since the moment they were announced. After two months of silence, Laura Kelly has now voiced her concerns some 36 hours after her party suffered defeat in blue state Virginia - words accompanied by no action. Kansans are smart, and can see which candidate is acting on principle defending their livelihood and which is making a desperate political ploy to save her own job," Schmidt's campaign manager CJ Grover tweeted Friday. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed

President Biden and House Democrats celebrated overnight after the passage of the bipartisan $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill, which ended weeks of deadlock amid infighting between the party's moderates and progressives. 
"Tonight, we took a monumental step forward as a nation," Biden said in a statement issued by the White House early Saturday.
Biden, who has been urging Democrats to pass the signature item on his agenda, called the legislation a "once-in-a-generation investment in our people." 
But while the vote was a badly needed win for the Biden administration following a disappointing Election Night for the party earlier in the week, it was not unanimous: Six progressive Democrats voted against the bill.
Thirteen Republicans, however, crossed the aisle to help get the measure passed – drawing criticism from some of their GOP colleagues.
GOP LAWMAKERS BLAST ‘RINOS’ AFTER HOUSE PASSES $1.2T INFRASTRUCTURE BILL: ‘TIME TO NAME NAMES’

      House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., accompanied by House Majority Whip James Clyburn, D-S.C., speaks to reporters at the Capitol in Washington, Friday, Nov. 5, 2021. 
      (Associated Press)
After the vote, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., posted her reaction on Twitter.
"Tonight, I proudly signed the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework and sent it to @POTUS to be signed into law," Pelosi wrote. "This bill delivers a once-in-a-century investment in our infrastructure, creates good-paying jobs and takes a crucial step to #BuildBackBetter For The People."
U.S. Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, who has led previous efforts to derail votes for the infrastructure bill unless they aligned with the more expensive Build Back Better Act, which remains up for debate, voted for bipartisan plan Friday. She too tweeted a statement after midnight Saturday.
"I voted to send legislation to President Biden's desk that delivers a necessary and long-overdue investment in our roads, bridges, waterways, and transit systems that will directly impact our communities while creating millions of good paying, union jobs," Jayapal wrote. She said there was much left to be done and she would continue to fight for working families. 
Moderate Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-N.J., said the votes "represent a major victory for our nation, for New Jersey, for pragmatic problem solving, and for our middle class families." He had previously expressed frustration with progressives over the bill.  
Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., agreed the Build Back Better Act needed to be passed as well. 
"I just voted yes on the infrastructure package," he tweeted. "It will benefit millions of workers and families. But unless we invest in our people too, the job is not even half finished. We can’t stop until we pass the Build Back Better Act. We need a new, New Deal."
Progressive Rep. Ilhan Omar explained her "no" vote in a long statement, writing in part, "Passing the infrastructure bill without passing the Build Back Better Act first risks leaving behind childcare, paid leave, health care, climate action, housing, education, and a roadmap to citizenship." 
Fellow progressive Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y.; Cori Bush, D-Mo.; Jamaal Bowman, D-N.Y.; Ayanna Pressley, D-Mass.; and Rashida Tlaib, D-Mich., also voted against it. The progressives had previously derailed votes on the bill. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
The Biden administration is preparing stricter testing for all travelers entering the US, including returning Americans, amid the rising threat of the omicron variant
Covered by: David Aaro, Fox News and Julia Musto
President Biden's enhanced winter COVID-19 strategy will be announced Thursday. It will require every traveler entering the country to be tested one day before boarding their flight, according to the CDC
The U.S. had largely reopened its borders to fully vaccinated foreign travelers on Nov. 8. Fully vaccinated people may present a test taken within three days of boarding.
As of Tuesday, the White House chief medical adviser said there were 226 cases of omicron in 20 countries.
Fast, 24/7 alerts delivered to your inbox daily. Subscribe to be in the know of the most important moments around the world.
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy.
incoming update…
Coverage for this event has ended.

Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, speaks during the daily briefing at the White House in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)

Fox News has confirmed that the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has identified the first case of the omicron COVID-19 variant in the U.S.

"The California and San Francisco Departments of Public Health have confirmed that a recent case of COVID-19 among an individual in California was caused by the Omicron variant (B.1.1.529)," the CDC wrote in a Wednesday statement.
The agency explained that the individual was a traveler who returned from South Africa on Nov. 22, 2021.
"The individual, who was fully vaccinated and had mild symptoms that are improving, is self-quarantining and has been since testing positive. All close contacts have been contacted and have tested negative," the CDC noted.
Genomic sequencing was conducted at the University of California, San Francisco and the sequence was confirmed at CDC as being consistent with the "variant of concern."
Dr. Anthony Fauci, White House chief medical adviser, 
told reporters in a news conference that the individual had tested positive on Nov. 29, 2021 and had not received a booster shot.
He said that officials "knew it was just a matter of time before the first case of omicron would be detected in the U.S."
"We know what we need to do to protect people. Get vaccinated, if you're not already vaccinated. Get boosted if you've been vaccinated for more than six months with an mRNA or two months with [Johnson & Johnson] and all the other things we've been talking about..." Fauci said, adding later that there are currently no other cases the CDC is investigating as omicron-linked.
"As the president said last Friday, it was only a matter of time before the first case of omicron was detected in the U.S.," the White House said in a statement later in the day. "We are prepared to meet this challenge with science and speed."

"The president's medical team continues to believe that existing vaccines will provide some level of protection against severe illness from omicron and individuals who have gotten boosters have even stronger protection," they continued. "As such, we urge all adults to get their booster shots and to get themselves and their kids vaccinated, if they haven't already."
The news comes as scientists continue to study the risks posed by the new strain of the virus.
The Biden administration moved late last month to restrict travel from Southern Africa where the variant was first identified and had been widespread. Clusters of cases have also been identified in about two dozen other nations.
The CDC was moving to tighten U.S. testing rules for travelers from overseas, including requiring a test for all travelers within a day of boarding a flight to the U.S. regardless of vaccination status. It was also considering mandating post-arrival testing.
Officials said those measures would only “buy time” for the country to learn more about the new variant and to take appropriate precautions, but that given its transmissibility its arrival in the U.S. was inevitable.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

A woman is tested for COVID-19 in Abuja, Nigeria, Monday Nov. 29, 2021. Nigeria has detected its first case of the omicron coronavirus variant in a sample it collected in October, weeks before South Africa alerted the world about the variant last week, the country's national public health institute said Wednesday Dec 1, 2021.(AP Photo/Gbemiga Olamikan, File)


The World Health Organization says travel bans by countries are having an impact on global cooperation against the new omicron variant by causing “challenges” to the sharing of laboratory samples from South Africa that can help get better grips on the new variant.
The comments Wednesday came at the first press briefing by the U.N. health agency since it christened omicron as a “variant of concern” after being brought to light by researchers in South Africa last week. Many countries responded by suspending flights from seven southern Africa countries.
WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called for “tailored” intervention by countries, including testing travelers before and after they arrive in a country, and advised against “blanket travel bans” that “place a heavy burden on lives and livelihoods.”

Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO’s technical lead on COVID-19, said international cooperation was continuing, and that researchers in South Africa have been “very willing to not only share data, not only share information, but also share samples.”
But she said travel bans “have caused some challenges for those samples to actually be shipped out of the country. So, there are other implications for these travel bans that are out there.”
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

A woman wearing protective masks to help curb the spread of the coronavirus stroll at Sensoji Temple in the Asakusa district in Tokyo Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021. Tourism-related businesses that were just finding their footing after nearly two years of the pandemic are being rattled again as countries throw up new barriers to international travel in an effort to keep out the new omicron variant of COVID-19. (AP Photo/Koji Sasahara)


Tourism businesses that were just finding their footing after nearly two years of devastation wrought by the COVID-19 pandemic are being rattled again as countries throw up new barriers to travel in an effort to contain the omicron variant.
From shopping districts in Japan and tour guides in the Holy Land to ski resorts in the Alps and airlines the world over, a familiar dread is rising about the renewed restrictions.
Meanwhile, travelers eager to get out there have been thrown back into the old routine of reading up on new requirements and postponing trips.
Abby Moore, a librarian and associate professor at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte, was scheduled to leave for Prague on Wednesday. But the day before her flight, she started having doubts when she saw that Prague had closed its Christmas markets and imposed a citywide curfew.

“I wasn’t really concerned about my trip until the Czech Republic started what looked like a mini-lockdown process,” said Moore, who decided to reschedule her travel to March.
Less than a month after significantly easing restrictions for inbound international travel, the U.S. government has banned most foreign nationals who have recently been in any of eight southern African countries. A similar boomerang was seen in Japan and Israel, both of which tightened restrictions shortly after relaxing them.
While it is not clear where the variant emerged, South African scientists identified it last week, and many places, including the European Union and Canada, have restricted travel from the wider region.For all the alarm, little is known about omicron, including whether it is more contagious, causes more serious illness or can evade vaccines.

Still, governments that were slow to react to the first wave of COVID-19 are eager to avoid past mistakes. The World Health Organization says, however, that travel bans are of limited value and will “place a heavy burden on lives and livelihoods.” Other experts say travel restrictions won’t keep variants out but might give countries more time to get people vaccinated.
London-based airline easyJet said Tuesday that renewed travel restrictions already appear to be hurting winter bookings, although CEO Johan Lundgren said the damage is not yet as severe as during previous waves. The CEO of SAS Scandinavian Airlines said winter demand was looking up, but now we “need to figure out what the new variants may mean.”
“In the past year, each new variant has brought a decline in bookings, but then an increase once the surge dissipates,” said Helane Becker, an analyst with financial services firm Cowen.

Hotels, which were recovering more quickly than expected, have experienced a similar phenomenon.
“Every time there has been a variant, as soon as it clears up a little bit (leisure travel) snaps back very quickly. Business travel is a little more uncertain,” said Ari Klein, a hotels analyst for BMO Capital Markets.
Israel’s decision to close the country to foreign visitors is hitting the nation’s tourism industry as it geared up for the Hanukkah and Christmas holidays. The country only opened to tourists in November, after barring most foreign visitors since early last year.
Just over 30,000 tourists entered Israel in the first half of November, compared to 421,000 in November 2019, according to government figures.
Joel Haber, a Jerusalem-based guide, said during a typical Hanukkah holiday his calendar would be chock full of food tours through Jerusalem’s colorful Mahane Yehuda market. Instead, he has just one tour a day.

“Tour guides like me are the first to get hit and the last to emerge and are directly prevented from working by a government decision,” Haber said.
In the West Bank city of Bethlehem, revered by Christians as Jesus’ birthplace, local businesses expected a boost from Christmas tourism. The Bethlehem Hotel, one of the largest in the city, has operated at a fraction of capacity for the past 18 months.
“Everyone who had bookings over the next two weeks has canceled, while others are waiting to see what happens next,” said the hotel’s manager, Michael Mufdi. “I don’t know how much longer we can last, but we are doing our best.”
The pandemic already caused foreign tourism in Japan to shrink from 32 million visitors in 2019 to 4 million last year, a trend that has continued through this year.

As worries surfaced about omicron, Japan on Wednesday tightened its ban on foreign travelers, asking airlines to stop taking new reservations for all flights arriving in the country until the end of December. The country earlier reversed a relaxation of travel restrictions that had been in effect just three weeks.
The crowds of Chinese shoppers who used to arrive in Tokyo’s glitzy Ginza district in a stream of buses to snap up luxury items have long disappeared. Restaurants and bars have been forced to restrict hours.
In Asakusa, a quaint part of town filled with souvenir shops, rickshaw drivers, and stalls selling traditional sweets, news of the omicron variant made little difference this week. Vendors say there hasn’t been any business for months except for a few local customers.
In South Africa, Frederic Plachesi, owner of Tamboti lodge in Dinokeng Game Reserve, is facing a similar fall-off in the international guests his business relies on.

“The odds are for the next few months, only locals will visit the lodge,” said Plachesi. “We estimate a 60% loss of business because of the omicron restrictions.”
In Europe, Alpine ski resorts worry about how to keep up with requirements such as ensuring all skiers are vaccinated or recovered from infection and have tested negative for the virus.
Matthias Stauch, head of the German ski lift operators association VDS, said many are small family businesses that lack the staff to perform such checks. Meanwhile, the association is warning about “massive” economic damage to the tourism sector if there is another lockdown.
Travel executives argue that government decisions about restrictions should wait until more is known about omicron, but they admit it’s a difficult call.

“If you wait, by the time you have all the data it’s probably too late to stop community spread because (the virus) is already here,” said Robert Jordan, the incoming CEO at Southwest Airlines. “If you jump ahead, you run the risk of the measures being more impactful than the actual cases.”
About a month ago, Javier Barragan and his husband booked a visit to Paris for later this month. When news of omicron hit, they were concerned but decided to go ahead with the trip.
“The way that it was in the news, there’s a sense of ‘Oh, is this worse? Is this different?’” said Barragan, who lives in New York. France’s health protocols — the couple will have to submit vaccine cards to enter the country — made them feel more comfortable. Also, both got booster shots.
They did, however, buy travel insurance that will cover cancellation for most any reason.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.


World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus delivers a speech during the launch of a multiyear partnership with Qatar on making the FIFA Football World Cup 2022 and mega sporting events healthy and safe, at the WHO headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, 18 October 2021. (Fabrice Coffrini/Keystone via AP, File)

The World Health Organization (WHO) announced Wednesday that it would "kickstart" a global process to "draft and negotiate a convention, agreement or other international instrument under the Constitution of the World Health Organization to strengthen pandemic prevention, preparedness and response."
In a statement
, WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the decision by the World Health Assembly was historic.
“The COVID-19 pandemic has shone a light on the many flaws in the global system to protect people from pandemics: the most vulnerable people going without vaccines; health workers without needed equipment to perform their life-saving work; and ‘me-first’ approaches that stymie the global solidarity needed to deal with a global threat,” Tedros said.
“But at the same time, we have seen inspiring demonstrations of scientific and political collaboration, from the rapid development of vaccines, to today’s commitment by countries to negotiate a global accord that will help to keep future generations safer from the impacts of pandemics," he added.
The Health Assembly reportedly met in its second-ever Special Session since the agency's founding, adopting a decision titled "The World Together.”

The conclusions reached establishes an intergovernmental negotiating body (INB) to draft and negotiate a WHO convention, agreement, or other international instrument on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response, with a view to adoption under Article 19 of the WHO Constitution, or other provisions of the Constitution as may be deemed appropriate by the INB.
Article 19 of the WHO Constitution provides the Health Assembly with the authority to adopt conventions or agreements on any matter within WHO’s competence.
The INB will hold its first meeting by March 1, 2022, and its second by August 1, 2022, and will hold public hearings, deliver a progress report to the 76th World Health Assembly in 2023 and submit its outcome for consideration by the 77th World Health Assembly in 2024.
“The emergence of the highly mutated omicron variant underlines just how perilous and precarious our situation is,” Tedros said on Monday. “Indeed, omicron demonstrates just why the world needs a new accord on pandemics.”
Tedros said the variant of concern's emergence is "another reminder that although many of us might think we are done with COVID-19. It’s not done with us."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Travelers wait in a line while entering a security checkpoint at Logan International Airport, in Boston, Wednesday, Nov. 24, 2021, the day before Thanksgiving. (AP Photo/Steven Senne)

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has reportedly issued a directive requiring airlines to disclose passenger names and other information about people who have recently been in eight southern African countries, according to documents seen by Reuters.
The outlet said that, effective Nov. 8, the CDC instructed all airlines to collect contact tracing information from all international air passengers but had not required them to turn over those names.
The directive also requires that airlines turn over the information within 24 hours of passengers arriving in the U.S. who have been in one of the eight African countries subject to travel restrictions.
Reuters said it took effect late Tuesday night.
The U.S. announced travel restrictions last week, spurred by news of variant B.1.1.529.

An international arrivals lobby is deserted at Narita International Airport in Narita, east of Tokyo, Japan, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Japan’s NHK national television said the country’s transport ministry on Wednesday, Dec. 1, requested international airlines to stop taking new reservations for all flights arriving in Japan until the end of December. (Miyuki Saito/Kyodo News via AP)

Japan asked international airlines on Wednesday to stop taking new reservations for all flights arriving in the country until the end of December.
The move is a a further tightening of already strict border controls implemented in an effort to ward off further transmission of the omicron variant.

The country's transportation ministry said the request is an emergency precaution. It was coupled with Japan's recent return to a ban on foreign visitors that tentatively extends through the end of the year.
Those who have already made reservations are not affected, although flights may be canceled if there are insufficient passengers, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism said. Transit flights won’t be affected.
Additionally, the decision comes as Japan confirmed a second case of the omicron variant in a person who arrived from Peru, one day after it reported its first case in a Namibian diplomat.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Travelers pull luggage while walking on a pedestrian bridge between terminals at Logan International Airport, in Boston., Wednesday, Nov. 24, 2021, the day before Thanksgiving. (AP Photo/Steven Senne)

In guidance released on international travel in relation to the SARS-CoV-2 omicron variant, the World Health Organization (WHO) wrote Tuesday that people ages 60 or older should delay travel to "areas with community transmission."
In a statement, the agency said that while scientific research regarding the variant of concern is underway to understand its behavior, people who are at increased risk of developing severe disease and dying – including those with comorbidities that present an increased risk of severe COVID-19 "postpone" travel plans to those places. 

"Persons who are unwell, or who have not been fully vaccinated or do not have proof of previous SARS-CoV-2 infection and are at increased risk of developing severe disease and dying, including people 60 years of age or older or those with comorbidities that present increased risk of severe COVID-19 (e.g. heart disease, cancer and diabetes) should be advised to postpone travel to areas with community transmission," the WHO wrote.
While not much is known about omicron, the variant has spread to 20 countries, with more than 200 cases reported. 
Preliminary evidence raises the possibility that the variant has mutations that could help it both evade an immune-system response and boost its ability to spread from one person to another.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)

The White House on Tuesday responded to concerns voiced by Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel, who suggested the current vaccines slotted to fight the coronavirus will not be enough to counter the new omicron variant. 
"It could go in a couple of different directions," White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters, referencing the lethality of omicron.

"It could be less deadly, it could be more. We don’t know yet. "We are not jumping to conclusions because we want to be clear with the American public about what we do and don’t know," she added.
Echoing comments made earlier that day at a press briefing by the White House COVID-⁠19 Response Team, Psaki said the best way to ward off the latest variant is still to get vaccinated.
"Here’s what we do know: getting vaccinated, getting boosted, means that you increase antibodies and you will have additional protection," she told reporters on Air Force One Tuesday.
"If there’s a need for a changing, a tweaking of vaccine, getting that to the market – we will be prepared to do exactly that, but we are not at that point yet," she continued. "We don’t know yet and we’re going to wait for the results and the analysis of health and medical experts."

"The most important thing we can do is get more people vaccinated," Psaki said. "We will continue to encourage other countries to get step up and do more to provide vaccine doses … to the global community."
Fox News' Caitlin McFall contributed to this report.

President Joe Biden speaks to members of the media before boarding Air Force One at Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport in Minneapolis, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021, after visiting Dakota County Technical College in Rosemount, Minn. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)


The Biden administration is set to introduce stricter testing for both vaccinated and unvaccinated legal travelers entering the United States amid the rising threat of the Omicron variant even while illegal migrants have gone mostly untested.
President Biden's enhanced winter COVID-19 strategy that will be announced Thursday will require every traveler entering the country, including returning U.S. citizens, to be tested one day before boarding their flight, according to the CDC. The rule will also apply to vaccinated travelers, who previously were only required to show a negative test no more than three days before their flight.
But the Biden administration has refused to put similar requirements in place for those who illegally cross the border, claiming in September that such individuals do not intend "to stay here for a lengthy period of time."

"As individuals come across the border, and they are both assessed for whether they have any symptoms, if they have symptoms they are," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said at the time.
"The intention is for them to be quarantined," she added. "That is our process, they’re not intending to stay here for a lengthy period of time. I don’t think it’s the same thing. It’s not the same thing."
Fox News legal analyst Gregg Jarrett reacts to federal agents' search of Project Veritas-related homes on 'Hannity.'
Project Veritas founder James O'Keefe offered a blistering response to the reported FBI raids that have been conducted against associates of the guerilla news outlet over the missing diary of President Biden's daughter. 
The New York Times broke the story on Friday that Biden's DOJ searched two locations in New York in search of a "stolen" diary that belonged to Ashley Biden that went missing just days before the 2020 presidential election. 
O'KEEFE: ‘MORE TO COME’ AFTER PROJECT VERITAS RELEASE S DOCS REVEALING FACEBOOK CENSORING ‘VACCINE HESITANCY’
The investigation is being conducted by the FBI and federal prosecutors in Manhattan.
"In recent weeks, federal investigators have reached out to at least one person who worked for Project Veritas to question that person about the diary, one of the people briefed on the case said," the Times reported. 

      Democratic presidential nominee and former Vice President Joe Biden's daughter Ashley Biden speaks by video feed during the 4th and final night of the 2020 Democratic National Convention, as participants from across the country are hosted over video links from the originally planned site of the convention in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, U.S. August 20, 2020. 2020 Democratic National Convention/Pool via REUTERS
      
O'Keefe confirmed the Times' reporting, releasing a video message addressing his group's apparent ties to the diary and declaring "Project Veritas came under attack."
"I woke to the news that apartments and homes of Project Veritas journalists, or former journalists, had been raided by FBI agents," O'Keefe began. "It appears the Southern District of New York now has journalists in their sights for the supposed crime of doing their jobs lawfully and honestly, or at least this journalist."
O'Keefe alleged that "within an hour" of the FBI's raid of the home of a Project Veritas reporter, the Times contacted that reporter for comment. 
FACEBOOK WHISTLEBLOWERS LEAK DOCUMENTS REVEALING EFFORT TO CENSOR ‘VACCINE HESITANCY’: REPORT
"We do not know how the New York Times was aware of the execution of a search warrant at our reporter's home or the subject matter of the search warrant as a grand jury investigation is secret," O'Keefe said. "The FBI took materials of current, former Project Veritas journalists despite the fact that our legal team previously contacted the Department of Justice and voluntarily conveyed unassailable facts that demonstrate Project Veritas' lack of involvement in criminal activity, and or criminal intent."
"Our efforts were the stuff of responsible ethical journalism, and we are in no doubt that Project Veritas acted properly at each and every step," O'Keefe asserted. 
The Project Veritas founder then explained that "tipsters" approached his group late last year alleging to have Ashley Biden's diary containing "explosive allegations" about her father, then the Democratic nominee, and that the diary was allegedly abandoned in a room that she had stayed at and that they stayed after. 
The "tipsters," who O'Keefe said he had never met prior, were apparently negotiating with media outlets to sell Biden's diary and that ultimately, Project Veritas did not publish the book's contents because his group was not able to independently verify its authenticity. 
JAMES O'KEEFE FIRES BACK AT NEW YORK TIMES OVER ‘HIT PIECE’ ON PROJECT VERITAS
"Project Veritas gave the diary to law enforcement to ensure it could be returned to its rightful owner. We never published it," O'Keefe said. "Now, Ms. Biden's father's Department of Justice, specifically the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York, appears to be investigating the situation, claiming the diary was stolen. We don't know if it was but it begs the question: In what world is the alleged theft of a diary investigated by the President's FBI and his Department of Justice? A diary?"
O'Keefe went on to claim the investigation "smacks of politics" but that Project Veritas will "not back down."

      Political activist James O'Keefe poses for a photo as he attends the New York screening of the Mike Cernovich film "Hoaxed" in Manhattan in New York City, U.S., December 9, 2018. REUTERS/Andrew Kelly
      
Fox News legal analyst Gregg Jarrett appeared on "Hannity" Friday and stressed there's a "huge difference" between what Ashley Biden's attorney has alleged that her diary was stolen versus what O'Keefe alleged about it being left behind in a room, saying "one's a crime and the other one isn't."
"Project Veritas did the right thing," Jarrett told Fox News' Sean Hannity. "They didn't publish this because they couldn't verify the authenticity of the documents, but the other conservative website did publish it but they claimed they did verify it. What is so bewildering about this is why in the world would the feds even involved in it."
Jarrett insisted that even if the diary was the subject of a theft, it would be a "state crime" rather than a federal crime and that the investigation, which allegedly began under Attorney General William Barr, has become an "enormous conflict of interest" with President Biden now in office. 
"A journalist cannot be criminally prosecuted for publishing stolen material unless the journalist himself or herself is involved in the theft. There's no indication of that," Jarrett said. "And the same is true of leaked classified information. Journalists have never been prosecuted for that, although the leakers have when they're identified. So we don't know a whole lot about this story, but it's deeply troubling. They would barge into the homes of two journalists armed with a search warrant signed off by a federal judge and the Department of Justice, presided over by Joe Biden, this smacks of a political investigation and potential prosecution."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
DHS Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas testifies before Senate Judiciary Committee
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas got into a heated exchange over children kept in poor conditions in detention facilities at the border.
During a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on Tuesday, Mayorkas took issue with Cruz characterizing the facilities as "cages," when the senator asked how many children have been kept there. 
MAYORKAS SAYS NOT ALL 1.2M ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WITH FINAL REMOVAL ORDERS SHOULD BE DEPORTED
"Senator, I respectfully disagree with your use of the term cages," Mayorkas said.
"Fine, you can disagree with it," Cruz said. "How many children have been in the Biden cages? I've been to the Biden cages. I've seen the Biden cages. How many children have you detained at the Donna tent facility in the cages you built to hold kids?"
DHS OIG REFUSES TO PROBE BORDER AGENTS SMEARED BY BIDEN ADMIN
Mayorkas continued to object to the term cages, leading Cruz to describe what they were.
Sen. Ted Cruz references a picture of migrants detained at the Mexican border while questioning Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas during a Senate Judiciary Committee in Washington on Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2021.  (Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas testifies during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2021, on Capitol Hill in Washington. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)
"There are enclosures," Cruz said, "in which they are locked in, in which I took photographs and put them out because you block the press and didn't want people to see the Biden cages. These secure facilities in which they are locked down in Donna, in those facilities, how many children have been in them?"
Cruz then provided photographic evidence to back his claim.
Mayorkas did not have a firm number of how many children had been there. Cruz then made a point that Democrats have not paid close attention to the situation, having Mayorkas confirm that neither President Biden nor Vice President Harris has been to the facility. The senator then turned the focus to his own colleagues.
"Has any Democratic member of this committee given a damn enough to see the children being locked up by Joe Biden and Kamala Harris because of your failed immigration policies?" he asked.
Mayorkas insisted that Democrats have been there, but he was unsure whether any of them were part of the committee.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Ken Paxton, the Republican attorney general from Texas, filed a motion seeking a temporary restraining order against a key part of President Biden’s COVID-19 mandate he says forces millions to choose between "fundamental constitutional rights and their livelihood."
The federal contractor mandate has faced legal challenges by states that say the wording is vague and potentially wide-reaching. Paxton, a fierce critic of Biden, said the president has weaponized the "administrative state against these federal contractors in an unprecedented overreach."
Paxton seeks a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction. He said he will not permit the president’s disdain for those who refused the jab to "seep into the great State of Texas."
"Here, we protect individual liberties first and foremost, and Texans do not have to sacrifice their beliefs and their health to preserve their livelihoods," he said in a statement."
The Department of Justice did not immediately respond to an after-hours email from Fox News.
Bloomberg Law pointed out that the president’s executive order lists Jan. 4 as the deadline for the vaccines without a "valid argument or accommodation." Biden has said companies with at least 100 employees will have to require all their employees be vaccinated or undergo weekly testing. The mandate for federal contractors does not have a testing option.

      Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton speaks outside the U.S. Supreme Court on November 01, 2021 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
      
Some attornies said these state challenges may face an uphill fight in court. Karla Grossenbacher, a labor and employment partner at Seyfarth Shaw in Washington, told the outlet, "You’re talking about the federal government making rules about its own contracts."
But others say the sheer speed of these mandates may create some legal vulnerabilities.
GET THE FOX NEWS APP
"The federal government is trying to do a lot in a short amount of time. When you do that, you could find there are problems around the edges of implementation," Marc Antonetti, an employment partner with Baker & Hostetler LLP in D.C., told Bloomberg.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich says the latest lawsuit involves pushing back on the mandate that covers federal employees and federal contractors
Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich spoke out on the state's lawsuit against the Biden administration's vaccine mandate during an appearance on "America Reports."
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION ASKS FEDERAL APPEALS COURT TO LIFT ORDER BLOCKING COVID-19 VACCINE MANDATE
MARK BRNOVICH: This is one of several lawsuits going on. Our lawsuit is the first one and ours focuses on the Biden administration attempting to have federal employees and federal contractors mandate that their employees get the vaccine. We think it’s clearly unconstitutional. The president has no authority in that anywhere in the constitution. It sets a very, very dangerous precedent because at the end of the day our U.S. constitution can’t be masked, can’t be distanced and it should never be canceled. And that’s what the Biden administration is essentially trying to do. They’re using this COVID crisis in order to take unprecedented power that the federal government doesn’t have. 
WATCH THE FULL INTERVIEW BELOW
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden's $1.85 trillion social spending bill includes a provision that, if it becomes law, would mark the first time the federal government has offered targeted support in response to the decline of local news.
The help would come in the form of a payroll tax credit for companies that employ eligible local journalists. The measure would allow newspapers, digital news outlets and radio and television stations to claim a tax credit of $25,000 the first year and $15,000 the next four years for up to 1,500 journalists. 
It's a response to growing alarm that the elimination of newsroom jobs is leaving communities without access to critical information. The concern has grown since a hedge fund with a reputation of ruthless cost-cutting  acquired Tribune, one of the nation's largest newspaper chains, in May. Already, about one-fourth of the country's newspapers have closed and half of local journalism jobs have evaporated in the past 15 years, according to research from the University of North Carolina. 
That leaves about 1,800 communities with no local newspaper.
BILL MAHER SLAMS MSNBC FOR PINNING YOUNGKIN WIN ON ‘WHITE IGNORANCE’
But the credit, which would cost $1.67 billion over the next five years, does create some tension for the industry. Some top Republicans in Congress have derided it as a handout. Leading journalists also acknowledge that it's awkward to receive financial assistance from a government they cover independently. 

      FILE - WCBS Newsradio 880 reporter Peter Haskell wears New York subway map themed socks while taking notes during a news conference in New York on March 24, 2021.
      (AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)
Still, given the sense of crisis the industry is facing, many journalists say the risk is worth it. 
"This is only a reluctant response to this fear of the collapse of local news and their business models," said Steven Waldman, president and co-founder of Report for America, an organization that places journalists in local newsrooms, including The Associated Press. "Most journalists start off with a healthy skepticism about the government getting involved and helping journalism. And that's appropriate."
"But," he added, "the reason why this is happening now is just the severity of the crisis."
Government support for media, in ways direct and indirect, is not new. It goes back to the earliest days of the country when Congress subsidized periodicals' postal rates. More recently, a pandemic-era small business loan program provided millions to news organizations. 
HANNITY BLASTS MEDIA, LEFT FOR CLAIMING RACISM WHILE ‘VILIFYING’ RITTENHOUSE AND JUDGE
The provision is supported by more than a dozen House Republicans, though the second-ranking GOP leader, Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana, called it a scam in a recent tweet. "Make no mistake — this is Biden and Dems in Congress helping pay the reporters' salaries who cover for them," he tweeted. 

      FILE - Journalists gather outside the White House in Washington on Nov. 4, 2020.  (AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)
      (AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)
The proposal's fate ultimately hinges on how Congress proceeds with the broader legislation, which has only attracted Democratic support and has become bogged down by divisions in the House and Senate. Notably, it is one of the few provisions to which House and Senate Democrats have already agreed.Lawmakers will resume debate on the bill when they return to Washington this coming week.
Though the proposal's main objective was to rescue small papers that were hit hard as  ad dollars evaporated at the start of the pandemic, it will help some larger companies. Should the tax break become law, Gannett, one of the nation's largest remaining newspaper chains, could gain as much as $127.5 million over five years, according to an analysis by the AP.
Maribel Perez Wadsworth, who runs the news division of Gannett, which employs more than 4,000 journalists at USA Today and local papers such as The Arizona Republic and Detroit Free Press, called the credit a "good shot in the arm." She would not specify how the money would be used.
AP spokesperson Lauren Easton declined to comment on the tax credit.
ANDREW SULLIVAN RAILS AGAINST ‘MEDIA NARRATIVES’ ON KYLE RITTENHOUSE, RUSSIAGATE: THEY ALWAYS FAVOR THE LEFT
Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick, D-Ariz., introduced the credit as a piece of legislation last year along with Rep. Dan Newhouse, R-Wash. 
One of the jobs tax credit's proponents was community-newspaper chain Wick Communications, which is based in Sierra Vista, Arizona — Kirkpatrick's congressional district. CEO Francis Wick said revenue has dropped by about half since 2009, with a steep ad-sales decline during the pandemic as local businesses reduced advertising. To cut costs, the company consolidated town papers into regional titles, cut print publication days and furloughed journalists.

      Jen Psaki, White House press secretary, speaks during a news conference in the James S. Brady Press Briefing Room at the White House in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, June 8, 2021. Photographer: Sarah Silbiger/Bloomberg via Getty Images
      
The tax credit, which would add an extra $2 million for the company in its first year, would help the papers in the 11-state chain try to transition to a digital-centric model with more paying subscribers, Wick said, rather than focus so tightly on cutting expenses. 
"We need to make sure ultimately we can do our jobs," Wick said.
The proposal has a key supporter in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who had long supported efforts to help local journalism. But the issue became more personal when her hometown paper, The Baltimore Sun, was among those acquired by hedge fund Alden Global Capital despite efforts by journalists and community members to steer the paper to local ownership.
One of those local advocates, former Maryland county executive Ted Venetoulis, called Pelosi after Alden's purchase, to urge her to support the credit, which by the time of that phone call was already in the broader Biden package. 
That would be the last time Venetoulis and Pelosi, D-Calif., would speak before he died in early October, the speaker said in an obituary in the newspaper and her office confirmed to AP.
The provision put in place guardrails to try to keep money from going to partisan sites that masquerade as local news or fake-news operations while casting a broad net about which organizations are considered legitimate local news outlets, whether they are hedge fund-owned chains, nonprofit, print, digital, radio or TV. 
"This isn't the government deciding who gets it and who doesn't get it," said Jon Schleuss, president of the NewsGuild, a union that represents journalists, including those at the AP. "Are you employing local journalists? If so, here's a tax credit. It's really helpful because it is targeted to where we've lost so many journalists over the past decade and that's in the local."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Former Acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker on Steve Bannon's indictment for contempt of Congress.
House Democrats are hoping that the Justice Department's indictment of Steve Bannon results in a conviction for contempt of Congress, but if it does it would be the first in decades.
In recent history, the DOJ has declined to even pursue such cases. The difficulty of obtaining convictions in these matters, as well as the political issues that can arise, have made cases very rare, and successful prosecutions even less common.
BANNON APPEARS IN COURT AFTER BEING CHARGED WITH CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS
The last time the Justice Department secured a conviction for contempt of Congress in federal court was back in the Watergate era, when Nixon adviser G. Gordon Liddy was convicted for refusing to answer questions and former Attorney General Richard Kleindienst pleaded guilty.
Before then, most contempt of Congress cases were related to the House Un-American Activities Committee's efforts against Communism.

      Steve Bannon, left, former adviser to President Trump, and his attorney David Schoen, address the media after an appearance at the E. Barrett Prettyman Federal Courthouse on contempt of Congress charges for failing to comply with a subpoena from the committee investigating the Jan. 6 riot, on Monday, Nov. 15, 2021.
      (Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
More recent cases have been rare and unsuccessful. The closest one went to going anywhere was when Reagan administration EPA official Rita M. Lavelle was indicted in 1983 for not appearing before a House subcommittee. Lavelle was acquitted of the contempt charge but later convicted for lying to Congress. 
The Obama administration saw two officials referred to the DOJ by the House for contempt of Congress. Former IRS official Lois Lerner was accused of contempt for not appearing before the House Oversight Committee to address allegations that she improperly targeted conservative groups for investigation.
Obama Attorney General Eric Holder was also referred for contempt of Congress. The DOJ opted not to pursue cases against him or Lerner.

      Steve Bannon, former adviser to President Trump, waves to members of the media as he departs federal court in Washington, D.C., on Monday, Nov. 15, 2021.
      (Craig Hudson/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
Similarly, the DOJ did not bring cases against Harriet Miers and Josh Bolten, officials in President George W. Bush's administration, after they were accused of disobeying a House Judiciary Committee subpoena.
HOUSE VOTES TO HOLD TRUMP ALLY STEVE BANNON IN CONTEMPT
According to Fox News contributor and former House Oversight Committee chairman Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, House subpoenas "should not be optional" if Congress is really an equal branch of government.
"Subpoenas are only as strong as your ability to enforce them," Chaffetz said.
At the same time, Chaffetz believes that the Justice Department's decision to prosecute Bannon is more politically motivated than based on a desire to uphold congressional power.
"This is a very compliant and politically aligned Department of Justice," Chaffetz said.

      Attorney General Merrick Garland steps away from the podium after speaking at a news conference at the Justice Department in Washington, Monday, Nov. 8, 2021.
      (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
In comparison, the Justice Department was not controlled by the same party as the House in the Holder, Lerner, Miers and Bolten cases.
The current DOJ, headed by Attorney General Merrick Garland, is too "politically charged," Chaffetz said.
"They still have Trump Derangement Syndrome," he added.
Chaffetz noted that when he was in Congress during the time of the Lerner and Holder cases, it took the DOJ a long time to even reach a decision not to prosecute those cases. With Bannon, he said, it "acted in record time."
While Chaffetz believes that House subpoenas should be enforced, he warned that Democrats should "beware" of taking politically motivated action because "it's only a matter of time" before Republicans are back in charge and able to issue subpoenas of their own.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
'The Five' discusses whether Harris could be replaced or other potential changes in 2024
The panel on "The Five" on Tuesday discussed the possibility that the relationship between Joe Biden and Kamala Harris could get to the point that the vice president could be replaced, either in the middle of the president's term or on his presumptive reelection ticket in 2024.
Host Dana Perino noted there is indeed a process for confirming a new vice president in the middle of a term, and it is not entirely unprecedented, though highly unusual and rare.
Nearly a dozen presidents have gone all or some of their tenure without a vice president or have gotten a new vice president mid-term. 
In 1974, Congress completed a confirmation process for former New York Republican Gov. Nelson Rockefeller to be President Gerald Ford's deputy following his ascension to the presidency amid Richard Nixon's resignation.

      U.S. President Gerald Ford, First Lady Betty Ford, Vice President Nelson Rockefeller, and vice presidential candidate Bob Dole celebrate winning the nomination at the Republican National Convention, Kansas City, Missouri, August 1976. REUTERS/John T. Bledsoe/U.S. News &amp; World Report Magazine Photograph Collection/Library of Congress/Handout
      
In another major example, President William Henry Harrison died only weeks into his 1841 term after battling pneumonia some believe he contracted at his inauguration. Vice President John Tyler assumed the presidency and completed his term without a formal vice president.
Presidents Andrew Johnson, a Democrat, and Chester Arthur, a Republican -- who succeeded assassinated presidents Lincoln and Garfield respectively -- had no official deputy. Nixon appointed Ford his new vice president under the then-fledgling 25th Amendment, after Spiro Agnew became embroiled in a bribery scandal and resigned in 1973.
The current administration does not want the American public to think there are problems between Biden and Harris, the panel on "The Five" argued.
"This is one of those things where the White House is expected you to not believe what you’re seeing," Perino said. "You can tell there’s a problem here. We know it. They called a cabinet meeting for the first time in three months last Friday on the day when Kamala Harris was not even in the country."
"And then that weekend is when the story started coming out [about their relationship]."
The host, however, noted that White House officials Jen Psaki and Ronald Klain have sought to pour cold water on theories of a rift between the two.

      First lady Jill Biden is greeted by Vice President Kamala Harris before a Medal of Honor ceremony for retired U.S. Army Col. Ralph Puckett, in the East Room of the White House, Friday, May 21, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
      (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
"Prime Minister Klain says he's quoted, and therefore everything is just fine," co-host Katie Pavlich remarked.
Later, Perino pointed to reporting from Fox News chief congressional correspondent Chad Pergram, who appeared on "Special Report" anchor Bret Baier's "All-Star Panel Podcast" on Fox News Radio.
"Chad Pergram said they’re preparing something in Congress that they have not done in many, many years – It’s about the process by which you go about confirming a new vice president," she said.
Host Greg Gutfeld later added that he had "called" the projection that there is a rift and that there could be research going on into how to replace Harris.
On the podcast, Pergram said he received an email from a source who wrote that the reporter should "start to familiarize yourself with the confirmation process not just in the Senate, but in the House, for a vice president."
"I was very surprised to get that very cryptic email just a few weeks ago," Pergram added, further noting the process was most recently used by Ford and an also-then-Democratic Congress.
"The Five" noted that the presidential line of succession, which places House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and then Senate President Pro-Tempore Patrick Leahy of Vermont below Harris, does not come into play in this particular scenario.

      UNITED STATES - DECEMBER 6: Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., right, Rep John Lewis, D-Ga., left, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and House Majority Whip James Clyburn, D-S.C., attend a news conference on the Voting Rights Advancement Act in the Capitol on Friday, December 6, 2019. (Photo By Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
      
Pelosi would not automatically become vice president nor would Leahy – who has announced his retirement in 2022 – ascend to any new role. The speaker and pro-tem only ascend to the presidency upon the simultaneous incapacitation of an incumbent president and vice president.
Host Jesse Watters suggested the only two Democrats left to lead a ticket in the case Biden and Harris are rejected by the party would be Sen. Bernie Sanders, also of Vermont, and former Georgia State Rep. Stacy Abrams of Atlanta.
Other members of the panel somewhat agreed that the Democrats could realistically unite behind California Gov. Gavin Newsom as well, if the then-82-year-old Biden decides not to run in 2024 – and if they do not want to support Harris.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox Business' 'How America Works' host blasted the left for scoffing at 'real' issues Americans face, such as rising inflation and gas prices on 'Fox News Primetime'
Former President Barack Obama’s top economic advisers appear to be souring on the economic policies of his former vice president, voicing frustrations that President Biden hasn’t heeded their concerns about the burgeoning inflation crisis.
Steven Rattner, who served as counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration, issued a scathing op-ed Tuesday saying Biden’s $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan, passed in March, was the "original sin" that contributed materially to today’s inflation, which hit the highest annual rate since November 1990, according to the Labor Department.
FORMER CLINTON TREASURY SECRETARY: BIDEN ADMINISTRATION NOT GRASPING CONCERN OF INFLATION

      Steven Rattner speaks during the Aspen Ideas Festival in Aspen, Colorado, on July 1, 2014. (Matthew Staver/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
      
"How could an administration loaded with savvy political and economic hands have gotten this critical issue so wrong?" Rattner wrote in The New York Times. "They can’t say they weren’t warned – notably by Larry Summers, a former Treasury secretary and my former boss in the Obama administration, and less notably by many others, including me. We worried that shoveling an unprecedented amount of spending into an economy already on the road to recovery would mean too much money chasing too few goods."
FORMER OBAMA ECONOMIC AIDE: I 'WARNED' DEMOCRATS ABOUT INFLATION, WONDERS HOW BIDEN GOT IT 'SO WRONG'
Rattner, who donated thousands of dollars to Biden’s 2020 presidential campaign, called on the president to "come clean" with voters about the real impact of his spending plans on inflation, including his Build Back Better proposal, which is estimated to add $800 billion or more to the deficit over the next five years. 
Rattner was once lauded as a "leading US public intellectual" by Biden’s White House chief of staff Ronald Klain, who came under fire last month after retweeting a comment claiming inflation concerns were only "high-class problems." 
Meanwhile, Summers, who served as director of the National Economic Council under Obama and Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, said earlier this month that his predictions about stimulus setting off inflationary pressures "have come true."
"I think it’s almost certain to last for another six to nine months, and it could well last longer," he said.

      Larry Summers, former Treasury secretary and White House economic adviser, is interviewed by Fox News' Maria Bartiromo on May 24, 2017, in New York City. (Robin Marchant/Getty Images)
      
Summers, who also donated thousands to Biden’s 2020 presidential campaign and an additional $50,000 to Biden’s joint fundraising committee with the Democratic National Committee, according to FEC records, had predicted in an earlier op-ed there was a "chance" the American Rescue Plan could "set off inflationary pressures of a kind we have not seen in a generation, with consequences for the value of the dollar and financial stability."
But unlike the American Rescue Plan, Summers said last week that he supports Biden's Build Back Better and bipartisan infrastructure plans because of the tax hikes that come with them.
Despite the warnings about over-stimulating the economy, White House officials fervently downplayed inflation concerns throughout the spring and summer. Biden only recently pivoted, saying his spending plans will actually decrease inflation because they'll get more people to participate in the economy. 
"Does the WH owe Larry Summers an apology?" Politico Playbook asked last week.

      President Biden greets people after delivering a speech on infrastructure in Woodstock, New Hampshire, on Nov. 16, 2021. (John Tully/Getty Images)
      
The White House responded to the comments in a statement to Fox News defending the American Rescue Plan.
"The American Rescue Plan saved our country from economic catastrophe, helped get millions of Americans back to work, and helped make sure American families had money in their pockets from tax cuts and rising wages," a White House official said.
"That doesn’t make rising prices due to global supply chain issues, affecting countries around the world, any less frustrating for the American people, but there are no regrets about the most robust economic recovery in history and an historic vaccination effort that has helped keep us and our kids safe," the official added.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed

Democrats will face a "devastatingly bad" midterm election cycle if President Biden doesn't shift away from his party's left-wing flank and its demands, a top adviser to Bill Clinton told Fox News in an interview. 
"The Biden administration has been seen as too far to the left, and the Democratic Party has been seen as too far to the left," Mark Penn said. 
"I think unless the Democrats change course here and move more towards the center, these trends indicate a devastatingly bad midterm election for Democrats," Penn continued.

      President Biden with first lady Jill Biden during a visit at Brookland Middle School in northeast Washington, on Sept. 10.
      
Following Glenn Youngkin's victory in Virginia and Jack Ciattrelli's stronger-than-expected showing in the New Jersey gubernatorial contest, progressives and moderates in the Democratic Party immediately started pointing fingers at each other over who was to blame for the outcomes. 
CIATTARELLI WEIGHING RECOUNT DEMAND IN NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR RACE 
Progressive strategists and activists began firing shots at moderates shortly after Youngkin's victory and said they would stay the course on pushing left-wing policies leading up to the 2022 elections.

      Virginia Republican gubernatorial nominee Glenn Youngkin speaks during his election night party at a hotel in Chantilly, Virginia, Nov. 3, 2021.
      (REUTERS/ Jonathan Ernst)
To Penn, however, the Virginia and New Jersey races are a sign of things to come if Biden does not distance himself from their policies and demands. 
"Even though I think there have been signs for the last couple of months that people see the left of having too much influence in the Democratic Party, the Biden administration has remained on course and hasn't made any shifts," Penn said.
'DEMOCRATS ARE IN DISARRAY: DC LOCALS SHARE HOW THEY FEEL ABOUT THE PARTY'S DIRECTION
The intraparty fighting reached a fever pitch during Biden's push to get his infrastructure and social spending packages across the finish line. 
While the infrastructure package passed with the help of more than a dozen House Republicans, Biden's social spending package faces a much more uncertain fate as leadership attempts the balancing act of making progressives content while not pushing moderates away from the legislation. 
West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin and Arizona Sen. Kyrsten Sinema, both Democrats, have also impeded the progressive agenda. 

      President Biden shields his eyes from the sun as he walks toward Air Force One at Andrews Air Force Base, Md., Wednesday, Oct. 20, 2021. 
      (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)
Penn said it took a midterm shellacking for Clinton to move more toward the center and that he can't see Biden making the shift unless voters deliver a strong message next year.
"When I worked with President Clinton, it took the '94 congressional elections to serve as a wake-up call, and President Clinton moved from – kind of – working with the left, to working with the center," Penn said.
"I don't think we're going to see that come out of president Biden right now, that may – like President Clinton – take a strong message in the midterms for that to happen," Penn concluded.  
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
President of the National Border Patrol Council Brandon Judd argues the U.S. is in the 'biggest' border security crisis because the Biden administration reversed his predecessor's immigration polices. 
President of the National Border Patrol Council Brandon Judd asserted Sunday that the United States is now in the "biggest crisis we have ever seen" as it pertains to border security, arguing it's because the Biden administration reversed all of former President Trump’s immigration policies. 
"Any time we release people into the United States pending a hearing that they’re [illegal immigrants] not going to show up to, we’re going to have tons of people cross our borders illegally," Judd told "Fox News Live" on Sunday. 
"It’s that magnet that draws people here and as long as that magnet exists, people are going to continue to come."
"If we hold people in custody, pending a deportation or asylum hearing, people stop coming," he continued. "That was proven under the migrant protection protocols." 
Judd then explained that the Biden administration "unfortunately did away with everything that President Trump did that was in fact beneficial to border security," and, resultantly, opened the floodgates. "Now we’re in the biggest crisis we’ve ever seen as far as border security goes," Judd asserted.
President Biden scrapped a number of his predecessor's immigration policies, which included wall construction and having asylum seekers remain in Mexico instead of in the U.S. while they wait for their cases to be heard. The moves have led to a record surge in migrants, including unaccompanied minors, that has strained capacity at immigration facilities. 
Judd argued that there has been an "explosion" of illegal immigrants in the country "and it’s simply caused by Biden policies."
Judd also argued on Sunday that President Biden has not been forthcoming to the American people. 
On Sunday, White House Senior Adviser Cedric Richmond would not confirm nor deny that the Biden administration would be making payments to illegal immigrants who were separated from their children under the Trump administration, but insisted that President Biden is up to speed on the situation despite seemingly contradictory comments on the subject.
On Wednesday, Biden had denied that a report about possible $450,000 payments to people separated from their families was real, leading the ACLU to claim that he "may not have been fully briefed" about what the Department of Justice was doing. On Saturday, the president came out in support of payments.
HARRIS, WHILE FINALLY VISITING THE BORDER, TOUTS ‘EXTREME PROGRESS’ IN TACKLING MIGRANT SURGE
"The president’s in the loop," Richmond told "Fox News Sunday," noting that Biden said all along that his Justice Department would be independent.
Biden's claim that the payments were not real came in response to a question from Fox News' Peter Doocy, who asked whether they would incentivize illegal immigration.
"If you guys keep sending that garbage out, yeah. But it’s not true," Biden responded. 
On Saturday, however, Biden said an immigrant – legal or illegal – would "deserve some sort of compensation no matter what the circumstances" if they were separated from their child.
"The dollar amount might be a little bit different, but the fact remains, they are in discussions for payments to these families and President Biden could have come out and he could have told the American public that and he didn’t," Judd argued on Sunday. 
He went on to say that he’s "concerned with anything that this administration says right now simply because they haven’t been forthcoming."
Judd said that that the administration has not disclosed how many people are being released into the United States, how many people are crossing the border illegally, or how many of those who are taken into custody have criminal records. 
"They’re not forthcoming with the American public and the American public has a right to know exactly what is happening — and until this administration is in fact forthcoming with all these things, we have reason to be skeptical on anything that they tell us as it pertains to border security," Judd argued. 
A White House spokesperson did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. 
Fox News’ Ronn Blitzer contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Two cases of the new omicron COVID-19 variant have been identified in the United Kingdom, an official said. Germany announced Saturday that it has also detected a possible case of the variant.
Covered by: Peter Aitken, Brie Stimson , Paul Conner, Fox News and Adam Sabes
The U.S. will also restrict travel from  Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi.
Experts say it's too early to determine if the coronavirus vaccines will be effective against the new variant
Fast, 24/7 alerts delivered to your inbox daily. Subscribe to be in the know of the most important moments around the world.
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy.
incoming update…
Coverage for this event has ended.
Abbott said in a statement on Saturday that they remain "confident" that their rapid and PCR tests can detect the coronavirus amid the omicron variant being detected in South Africa.
"Abbott has been intently monitoring the mutations of COVID-19 so we can ensure our tests can detect them. We have already conducted an assessment of the Omicron variant and we're confident our rapid and PCR tests can detect the virus. While the Omicron variant contains mutations to the spike protein, Abbott's rapid and PCR tests do not rely on the spike proteins to detect the virus.
"Abbott is currently manufacturing more than 100 million COVID-19 rapid and PCR tests a month to help support increased need for testing around the globe.

The process for evaluating variants and stress-testing our tests doesn't stop with the current variants. We are actively collecting real-world samples and using viral cultures to verify that our tests continually detect circulating strains because we know how important it is that our tests can detect new variants regardless of where they are found," the statement said.
Israel has approved a measure closing the country to non-citizen arrivals for two weeks due to fear of the spread of the new omicron coronavirus variant.

The Times of Israel reported Saturday that the Israeli cabinet has approved a ban on international arrivals of non-citizens for two weeks and imposed mandatory quarantine for Israeli citizens who are arriving.
"#BREAKING: No foreigners will be allowed to enter Israel in the next 2 weeks following #Omnicron variant," Israeli journalist Amichai Stein tweeted Saturday. "All Israelis returning from abroad, will need between 3-7 days quarantine."


U.S. Department of State Spokesperson Ned Price released the following statement regarding Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken's phone call with South African Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Naledi Pandor.

"Secretary Blinken and Foreign Minister Pandor emphasized the importance of continued partnership among the United States, the African Union, South Africa, and the other impacted nations in Africa to help vaccinate populations and combat the impacts of COVID-19.  The Secretary expressed appreciation for the longstanding public health cooperation between the United States and South Africa.  Secretary Blinken specifically praised South Africa’s scientists for the quick identification of the Omicron variant and South Africa’s government for its transparency in sharing this information, which should serve as a model for the world," Price said.


Dutch authorities believe some of the passengers on two flights from South Africa that tested positive for coronavirus carried the omicron variant.
“In a number of the tested persons the omicron variant is presumed to have been found,” the Netherlands Institute for Health (RIVM) said in a statement. The organization warned that further testing would be needed to confirm, but it was “almost certain.”
Health personnel tested some 624 passengers who arrived at Amsterdam’s Schiphol Airport Friday, but officials would not reveal the total number of omicron cases suspected on the flight.
The South African doctor who first alerted authorities to the presence of the COVID-19 omicron variant reported that it presents "unusual but mild" symptoms. 
Dr. Angelique Coetzee, a board member of the South African Medical Association, first noticed otherwise healthy patients demonstrating unusual symptoms on Nov. 18. 
"Their symptoms were so different and so mild from those I had treated before," Coetzee told The Telegraph. 
The White House announced the president has kept up-to-date with the latest on the COVID-19 omicron variant.
"Senior health officials and the COVID response team have been monitoring the latest updates on Omicron and in regular touch with health officials around the world," a White House statement said.
The U.S. travel restriction advising Americans "do not travel" to South Africa went into effect Saturday.
The new COVID-19 omicron variant is posing new risks for the American people as President Biden and his administration attempt to control the spread of a virus he vowed to "shut down" during the 2020 campaign.
The omicron variant, according to World Health Organization (WHO) officials, has a large number of mutations, "some of which are concerning."
On Friday, Biden restricted travel from South Africa and seven other countries over concerns of the "heavily mutated" variant, which has been identified in Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi.
Johnson laid out a plan to expand booster eligibility as a primary tool to combat the spread of the omicron variant in the U.K.

"We are already planning to do 6 million jabs in England alone over the next three weeks," Johnson told reporters. "And now we are looking to go further, so the Health Secretary has asked the JCVI to consider giving boosters to as wide a group as possible, as well as reducing the gap between your second dose and your booster."
The government in three weeks will review all new measures.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced new travel restrictions as the United Kingdom grapples with the confirmation of multiple COVID-19 omicron variant cases.
Officials added Angola, Malawi, Mozambique and Zambia to its "red list," which requires all travelers to test before entry and quarantine upon arrival.
But Johnson announced that all travelers entering the U.K. will now need a PCR test upon entry.

"Measures at the border can only minimize the impact of the variant, not contain it," Johnson said before announcing for all residents who have made contact with a confirmed omicron case to isolate for 10 days - regardless of vaccination status.
Johnson also asked residents to "tighten up" on mask policies, announcing that masks will be compulsory in shops and on transit.

The World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed it skipped the Greek letters "nu" and "xi" in naming its new COVID-19 variant, which it dubbed the "omicron" variant.
"'Nu' is too easily confounded with ‘new,’ and ‘X' was not used because it is a common last name, and WHO best practices for naming disease suggest avoiding ‘causing offence to any cultural, social, national, regional, professional or ethnic groups,’" a WHO spokesperson told Fox News in a statement on Saturday.
The move did not go unnoticed by pundits and politicians on social media — some of whom criticized the decision while others praised it.
Dr. Anthony Fauci said Saturday morning that he would not be shocked to learn that the COVID-19 omicron variant is already in the U.S.
In an interview on NBC's "Weekend TODAY" show, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) Director told co-hosts Kristen Welker and Peter Alexander that the strain has a large number of mutations that would suggest it could potentially evade immune protection and that scientists can predict it will be more transmissible. 

"We don't know that yet, but you have to be careful and assume that that's the case. It also has a bunch of mutations that would suggest it could evade the protection, for example, of monoclonal antibodies and perhaps even convalescent plasma for people who've been infected and recovered and possibly vaccine. These are all ‘maybes,’ but the suggestion is enough," he said.
Dutch authorities are checking for the omicron variant after 61 passengers on two flights from South Africa tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. 
The passengers who tested positive have been isolated and further investigations are being carried out. 
The planes arrived in the Netherlands from Johannesburg and Cape Town shortly after the Dutch government – like many other nations – imposed a travel ban from southern African nations. 
Germany announced Saturday that it has detected a possible case of the COVID-19 omicron variant.
Kai Klose, social affairs minister in the western state of Hesse, tweeted
 that “several mutations typical of Omicron were found on a returnee from South Africa.”  The person in question is isolating while the government sequences the virus to confirm whether or not it is the new variant.
Klose urged any visitor from southern Africa in the past week to isolate and get tested.
South Korea has joined the growing list of countries that have added travel restrictions for visitors arriving from eight southern African countries after health officials identified the new COVID-19 omicron variant.

The South Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency advised that any South Korean citizens returning from South Africa, Bostwana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi will need to quarantine. The agency will also limit new visas to people traveling from those countries.
The restrictions will take effect starting Nov. 28.


Two cases of the new omicron COVID-19 variant have been identified in the United Kingdom, an official said.
"The two cases are linked and there is a connection with travel to southern Africa," said Member of Parliament Sajid Javid.

Javid said the two individuals are isolating and that more testing and contact tracing is underway.
The UK banned travel from southern Africa nations Friday.

Makary on 'Fox & Friends.'

Anti-COVID-19 treatments from Merck and Pfizer would be effective against the omicron variant, Fox News medical contributor Dr. Marty Makary told "Fox & Friends."
"Therapeutics are massively understated here," said Makary, adding that if the Food and Drug Administration authorizes the Merck drug on Tuesday, it could be available to consumers two weeks from now.
Watch the interview here.
No cases of the omicron COVID-19 variant have yet been identified in the U.S., the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Friday night.
"We expect Omicron to be identified quickly, if it emerges in the U.S.," the CDC said.
The CDC thanked the South African government for disclosing the variant to the World Health Organization, which labeled it a "variant of concern" on Friday. The CDC also encouraged people to get vaccinated as the best way to protect themselves from COVID-19.
"We are working with other U.S. and global public health and industry partners to learn more about this variant, as we continue to monitor its path," the CDC said.

People line up to get on an overseas flight at OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg, South Africa, Nov. 26, 2021. (AP Photo/Jerome Delay, File)

Sixty-one passengers who landed from South Africa in the Netherlands have tested positive for COVID-19, and officials there are seeking to determine whether any of the infections are new omicron variant, the Associated Press reports.


South Africa's Health Minister Joe Phaahla called travel restrictions from the country by the United States and other nations "unjustified."
“Covid-19 is a global health emergency," the health minister said, according to CNBC. "We must work together, not punish each other. Witch hunts don’t benefit anyone. South Africa wants to be an honest player in the world, to share health info not just of benefit to South Africans and citizens of the world.”

Phaahla said South Africa was being blamed for the new variant after scientists in the country identified it on Thursday. The variant has caused a surge of cases in South Africa.
Counties in Europe and Asia have also restricted travel from southern Africa.
New York Gov. Kathy Hochul issued a state of emergency order on Friday in response to the identification of the COVID-19 omicron variant.
The emergency order is intended to increase hospital capacity in New York and will last until at least Jan. 15, when it will be reassessed. 
According to a copy of the order, the state will utilize the "surge and flex system," which allows the Department of Health to limit non-essential and non-urgent hospital procedures in situations where a hospital has less than 10% staffed bed capacity.
The United States will restrict travel from South Africa and seven other countries starting Monday over concerns of the "heavily mutated" COVID-19 omicron variant, senior administration officials said.

The Biden administration will follow advice from Dr. Anthony Fauci and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and restrict travel from several African nations following the identification of variant B.1.1.529, which appears to be highly contagious among young people. 
"This morning I was briefed by my chief medical advisor, Dr. Tony Fauci, and the members of our COVID response team, about the Omicron variant, which is spreading through Southern Africa," Biden said in a statement. As a precautionary measure until we have more information, I am ordering additional air travel restrictions from South Africa and seven other countries. These new restrictions will take effect on November 29."
Rep. Cheri Bustos, D-Ill., explains why she doesn't call Biden's Build Back Better plan a 'social spending' package
The Biden White House claimed that the Congressional Budget Office doesn’t have the "experience" to weigh in on the president’s Build Back Better agenda.
White House deputy press secretary Andrew Bates made the claim while speaking to a gaggle of reporters during an Air Force One flight to Rochester, New Hampshire.
The president traveled to New Hampshire on Tuesday to promote his Build Back Better agenda after he signed the $1 trillion infrastructure bill into law a day prior.
BIDEN’S BUILD BACK BETTER PLAN CALLS FOR 185 TIMES MORE SPENDING ON CLIMATE THAN FUTURE PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS

      U.S. President Joe Biden delivers remarks about his Build Back Better agenda and the bipartisan infrastructure deal during a speech from the East Room of the White House in Washington, U.S., October 28, 2021.
      (REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst)
"The CBO does not have experience analyzing revenue amounts gained from tracking down wealthy tax cheats who are taking advantage of every honest taxpayer," Bates said.
"Last night, reporters directly asked key Democratic House members — whose views run the gambit, including moderates, liberals, folks in between," he continued. "They universally said this was not an issue at all."
Bates also said that the "CBO fiscal data so far lines up" with the White House’s estimates.
The CBO is a nonpartisan body that impartially studies the economic impact of legislation proposed to Congress and assigns bills a score.

      U.S. President Joe Biden smiles during his remarks before signing the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act on the South Lawn at the White House in Washington, U.S. November 15, 2021.
      (REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst)
Bates quickly defended his statement online after igniting a firestorm on Twitter Tuesday, posting his own tweets and retweeting accounts in support of his claim.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki took shots at the previous administration regarding a "walk away" from a CBO score.
"Watching Mullaney try to walk away from CBO score and explain budget outline is awkward and uncomfortable to watch," Psaki tweeted in 2017.

      White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki pauses while speaking during the daily press briefing at the White House October 12, 2021 in Washington, DC. Earlier on Tuesday, President Joe Biden met virtually with G20 leaders to discuss Afghanistan.
      (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
Jesse Lee, who currently serves as the senior adviser for communications at the National Economic Council, also took shots at the Trump administration over the CBO, saying, "We will be in court to force the Administration to disclose their deliberations on undermining/ eliminating the CBO."
The tweets from Bates come after the president signed the $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill into law.
Biden is now touting the trillion-dollar package after its passage following a poor election performance at the beginning of the month.
The infrastructure package is one of two major legislative proposals that Biden is pushing through Congress, the other being the heavily controversial reconciliation package.
The White House did not respond to Fox News' request for comment.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Ohio congressman Mike Turner joins ‘Tucker Carlson Tonight’ to discuss the major threat Russia has over United States and U.S. allies. 
The Biden administration said this week it is "concerned" about Russian military activity near Ukraine's border, while maintaining that the U.S. commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty is "ironclad."
Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Wednesday expressed concern at "reports of unusual Russian military activity near Ukraine."
"We’re monitoring the region very closely," Blinken said. "As we always do, we’ll continue to consult closely as well with allies and partners on the issue."
He added: "And as we’ve made clear, any escalatory or aggressive actions would be of great concern to the United States."
Blinken said the Biden administration continues to support "de-escalation… in the region, and diplomatic resolution to the conflict in eastern Ukraine."
DURHAM INDICTMENT OD DANCHENKO CASTS NEW SCRUTINY ON DEMOCRATS WHO HYPED STEELE DOSSIER
In a warning to Russia, Blinken said Biden administration officials "know it's playbook," pointing to Ukraine’s escalation in 2014 under the Obama administration.

      Russian President Vladimir Putin attends a flower-laying ceremony at the Russian Civil War memorial on Unity Day, in Sevastopol, Crimea, on Nov. 4, 2021.
      (MIKHAIL METZEL/SPUTNIK/AFP via Getty Images)
"Our concern is that Russia may make a serious mistake of attempting to rehash what it undertook back in 2014, when it amassed forces along the border, crossed into sovereign Ukrainian territory and did so claiming falsely that it was provoked," Blinken said.
White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan met with Ukrainian officials Wednesday, where he "emphasized the United States’ unwavering commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity."
Meanwhile, as the Biden administration expresses its concern about the activity, House Republicans are looking for a harder line approach – with GOP members of the House Armed Services Committee urging President Biden to deploy troops to the region.
PSAKI TWEET ON TRUMP PHONE CALL WITH UKRAINE PRESIDENT COMES BACK TO HAUNT HER
In a letter to the president, led by the top Republican on the committee Rep. Mike Rogers and the top Republican on the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Rep. Mike Turner, they urged the administration to "take immediate and swift action to provide support to Ukraine in the form of intelligence and weapons."
"We also urge your administration to deploy a U.S. military presence in the Black Sea to deter a Russian invasion," they wrote, adding that Russia’s behavior "is becoming more aggressive" and "has intensified rhetoric critical of Ukraine on topics ranging from Ukraine’s military modernization and military partnerships to Ukraine’s admission into NATO."

      Participants of the war with Russia backed separatists on the east of Ukraine, activists of Right Sector, far-right movement hold placards and flags during their rally called "Stop the creeping occupation!" outside the office of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in Kiev on Nov. 4, 2021.
      (SERGEI SUPINSKY/AFP via Getty Images)
"Although Russia’s intentions are uncertain, the presence of Russia’s elite 1st Guard Tanks Army lends credibility to concerns that Russia is planning additional incursions into Ukraine territory," they wrote.
"Your administration cannot ignore Russia’s continued threat to international law and Ukraine’s territorial sovereignty," they added.
The Republicans reminded the administration that, in September, they committed $60 million in military aid to Ukraine due to a "major increase in Russian military activity along its border."
"Since then, Russia’s apparent military activity has continued to increase in intensity," they wrote, adding that it is "imperative that the U.S. fulfill its commitment to a key partner by increasing lethal aid to Ukraine in order to deter and repel a renewed Russian incursion."
The Republicans also urged the administration to "immediately consider an appropriate U.S. military presence and posture in the region and to initiate appropriate intelligence sharing activities between the U.S. and Ukraine to prevent the situation from escalating further."
Ukraine’s Defense Ministry said last week that about 90,000 Russian troops are stationed not far from the border and in rebel-controlled areas in Ukraine’s east. It said specifically that units of the Russian 41st army have remained in Yelnya, about 160 miles (260 kilometers) north of the Ukrainian border.
RUSSIAN DIPLOMAT FOUND DEAD IN BERLIN, EMBASSY REFUSED AUTOPSY
Russia has cast its weight behind a separatist insurgency in Ukraine’s east that erupted shortly after Moscow's 2014 annexation of Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula and has left more than 14,000 people dead. Russia has repeatedly denied any presence of its troops in eastern Ukraine.
Earlier this year, a massive buildup of Russian troops in the country’s west raised concern in Ukraine and in the West, fueling fears of an escalation of large-scale hostilities.
Russian officials said the troops were deployed for maneuvers, casting them as part of measures to counter security threats posed by the deployment of NATO forces near Russian borders. Russia and the alliance also have blamed each other for conducting destabilizing military exercises near the borders.
Turner, appearing on "Tucker Carlson Tonight" on Wednesday, pressed for U.S. military aid to Ukraine. 
"We've not asked anybody to go to war with Russia, or send troops to Russia for Ukraine for the purposes of going to war with Russia," Turner explained. "But it is incredibly important that they be providing lethal weapons and intelligence." 
Turner, pointing to the Biden administration's chaotic withdrawal of U.S. military from Afghanistan, warned that "both Russia and China are now looking at threatening their neighbors – including Taiwan, including Ukraine – countries that are important to our allies." 
He added: "Ukraine is a democracy. Russia is an authoritarian regime that is seeking to impose its will on a valuably elected democracy in Ukraine." 
"We’re on the side of democracy," Turner continued. "We’re not for authoritarian regimes and changing borders by tanks." 
He added: "Russians are not showing up on the border with ballot boxes, they are showing up with tanks."
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Lisa Boothe, Gianno Caldwell, Joey Jones and Carley Shimkus react to Trump's address at North Carlina GOP convention on 'The Big Sunday Show'
EXCLUSIVE: Former President Trump vowed to be "very involved" in the 2022 Midterm Elections, and will "stay busy for good people," in the hopes of helping to secure the majorities in both the House of Representatives and the Senate for Republicans.
During an exclusive interview with Fox News, Trump reflected on his endorsements in the off-cycle election last week—from high-profile candidates like Virginia’s now-Governor-elect Glenn Youngkin, to candidate for Staten Island Borough president—citing the diversity of the races, and the value of his support.

      FILE - In this May 29, 2018, file photo, President Donald Trump, left, and his daughter Ivanka Trump, right, watch as former football player Herschel Walker, center, throws a football during White House Sports and Fitness Day on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington. Walker registered to vote on Tuesday, Aug. 17, 2021, in Georgia as Donald Trump has been urging the former football great to join the U.S. Senate in the state as a Republican. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik, File)
      ((AP Photo/Andrew Harnik, File))
TRUMP SAYS DEMOCRATS 'PLAYED IT WRONG' IN VIRGINIA, PUT HIM 'ON THE BALLOT'
"We did Hialeah, the mayor, a terrific guy," Trump said, referring to now-Mayor-elect Esteban ‘Steve’ Bevo of Hialeah, Fla.
"A congressional seat in Ohio, where he had a tough primary and won by a lot after my endorsement," Trump said, referring to Mike Cary of Ohio’s 15th congressional district.
"We had Youngkin, and we had another one that was a very good victory," Trump said, referring to Youngkin’s gubernatorial win—delivering victory to a Republican candidate in Virginia for the first time in 12 years.

      Virginia Gov.-elect Glenn Youngkin speaks at an election night party in Chantilly, Va., early Wednesday, Nov. 3, 2021, after he defeated Democrat Terry McAuliffe.
      (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
"The borough president of Staten Island—that was the big one—I mean, a little different than federal, but the borough president. Vito Fossella won—he won the primary where he wasn’t scheduled to do it," Trump said. "His opponent had every endorsement, but he didn’t have mine. Vito ended up winning."
"It’s very interesting, because, I’ll support people that most people would say, why did you get involved there?" Trump said.
Trump said he plans on supporting state lawmakers in Michigan, who he said "fought for the election," and said would be "unsupporting people in Michigan who have been terrible."
TRUMP SLAMS NEW YORK POLITICIANS, LEAVES DOOR OPEN ON RETURN TO NYC
It is unclear who, specifically, Trump was referring.
"I’ll not only be supportive," Trump explained. "I’ll be very non-supportive of some people. So, you’ll see that there, and you’ll see that in other states too."
He added: "I’ll stay busy for good people. Not for bad people."
Trump, who has already offered his endorsement to dozens of Republican incumbents and candidates for 2022 said that he will continue "endorsing people." 
Meanwhile, Trump said Democrats "played it wrong" in Virginia. 

      Democratic gubernatorial candidate Terry McAuliffe prepares to speak at an election night party in McLean, Va., Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2021. (AP Photo/Steve Helber)
      (AP Photo/Steve Helber)
"If you look at what happened in Virginia, it’s very interesting. They used my name — the Democrats — so much that they ended up losing," Trump told Fox News. "One of the reasons [McAuliffe] lost is because he kept saying Trump, Trump, Trump." 
"And the Democrats played it wrong because they went after Trump," he said. "They put me on the ballot. The Democrats put me on the ballot." 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed

Former President Trump in remarks at the National Republican Congressional Committee dinner Monday openly blasted the 13 congressional Republicans who supported President Biden’s infrastructure bill in a vote Friday.
Fox News Digital has confirmed from sources at the dinner that the former president criticized the 13 Republican defectors in a lengthy speech Monday night in a room where at least one of them, Rep. Nicole Malliotakis, was present. 

      Former President Trump prepares to speak at the Rally To Protect Our Elections conference on July 24, 2021, in Phoenix, Arizona. 
      (Brandon Bell/Getty Images)
MEET THE 13 REPUBLICANS WHO VOTED FOR THE INFRASTRUCTURE BILL
The House of Representatives voted 228-206 on Friday to pass the $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill, which could not have passed without the support of the 13 Republicans who pushed it through despite opposition from six progressive Democratic members of the House.
The Republicans who supported the bill, arguing that it provided funding for important infrastructure projects in their districts, were Adam Kinzinger of Illinois, Don Bacon of Nebraska, Don Young of Alaska, John Katko of New York, Tom Reed of New York, Andrew Garbarino of New York, Malliotakis of New York, Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, Chris Smith of New Jersey, Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey, Fred Upton of Michigan, Anthony Gonzalez of Ohio, and David McKinley of West Virginia.
The New York Post’s Juliegrace Brufke reported on Tuesday that Malliotakis was "visibly shaken" by Trump’s remarks. 

      Rep. Nicole Malliotakis, R-N.Y., speaks during a House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis hearing on Capitol Hill on May 19, 2021 in Washington, D.C. 
      (Susan Walsh-Pool/Getty Images)
Malliotakis explained her vote in a video posted on social media, saying that the bill is "incredibly good" for her district and is different from the "socialist spending spree."
GOP LAWMAKERS BLAST 'RINOS' AFTER HOUSE PASSES $1.2T INFRASTRUCTURE BILL: 'TIME TO NAME NAMES'
Several of the other Republicans released similar statements, including Bacon, who said the bill will make the nation "stronger."
"Most of the hard infrastructure bill is paid for by unspent COVID money that was already appropriated by Congress. This bill makes our nation stronger and more competitive for years to come," Bacon said in a statement. "Make no mistake. This is not the Bernie Sanders’ Socialist Budget Busting Bill, which would’ve cost American taxpayers their hard-earned money. When that bill does come to the floor for a vote, I will be a hard ‘NO.’"
Several House Republicans have sided with Trump and expressed outrage toward the 13 Republicans, and sources confirmed to Fox News Digital that GOP leadership is concerned that disgruntled GOP lawmakers will attempt to strip committee assignments from the lawmakers who supported the bill.

      President Biden speaks during a press conference at the White House on Nov. 6, 2021. (Samuel Corum/Getty Images)
      
"RINOS just passed this wasteful $1.2 trillion dollar ‘infrastructure’ bill," Republican Rep. Lauren Boebert tweeted. "Pelosi did not have the votes in her party to pass this garbage. Time to name names and hold these fake republicans accountable."
Republican Rep. Madison Cawthorn called for any Republican who supported the bill to be primaried during their next election.
Kinzinger, Reed and Gonzalez have announced they plan to retire at the end of their terms.
Punch Bowl News reported that the Twitter account for the House GOP Conference tweeted and then deleted a post on Friday saying, "A vote for the Democrats ‘infrastructure’ bill is a vote for their socialist wish list. Americans won’t forget."
That tweet reportedly angered some of the Republicans who supported the bill, including Fitzpatrick.
Fox News’ Jon Brown contributed to this report
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter @andymarkmiller and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Four members of the MS-13 street gang were arrested by Border Patrol agents within a 14-hour span; Fox News correspondent Bill Melugin reports on the latest. 
Border Patrol agents in the Rio Grande Valley sector encountered almost 2,000 migrants in a single 24-hour period on Friday, with at least 262 migrants getting past overwhelmed agents due to a lack of manpower.
A Department of Homeland Security source told Fox News that there were 1,909 encounters with illegal migrants in the sector. Meanwhile, there were 262 "gotaways" -- in which agents saw crossers on cameras or sensors but don’t have the manpower to get to. It means there could be even more illegal migrants getting past agents who were undetected.
TEXAS LAW ENFORCEMENT ARRESTS HUMAN SMUGGLER BRINGING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO US ON A RAFT
So far in Fiscal Year 2022, the RGV sector has seen more than 65,000 migrant encounters to date, a 161% increase over the same period last year. In nearby Del Rio Sector, there has been a 236% increase in encounters over the same period last year. There have so far been 6,500 known gotaways in the sector alone.
The Biden administration has been tackling a massive crisis at the southern border since shortly after it came into office. More than 1.7 million migrants were encountered in Fiscal Year 2021, and more than 192,000 migrants were encountered in September alone.
GOP SENATORS THREATEN TO WITHHOLD SUPPORT FROM SPENDING BILL OVER LACK OF BORDER WALL FUNDING
The Biden administration has blamed the Trump administration for shutting off legal asylum pathways, while also blaming "root causes" like poverty and violence in Central America for the surge that has hit record highs.
Republicans meanwhile have blamed Biden policies like the decision to end border wall construction and moves to end the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) -- which kept migrants in Mexico as they await their hearings.
The Biden administration, meanwhile, has kept in place Trump-era Title 42 public health protections which allow for the rapid expulsion of migrants at the border. However, it is not applying them to unaccompanied children or to many migrant families -- who are instead being processed and released into the United States, often with little more than a notice to report at an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) office within 60 days.
The administration is also re-establishing MPP after a federal court order, upheld by the Supreme Court, found that the program had not been rolled back legally. Officials have said they are re-implementing the program by mid-November, while also issuing a new memo to unravel the program in line with the court ruling.
Earlier this week Texas law enforcement conducted an operation earlier this week that nabbed a human smuggler bringing multiple migrants – included a previously deported felon with convictions for sexual assault – into the U.S. on a raft.
Bill Melugin currently serves as a national correspondent for FOX News Channel based out of the Los Angeles bureau.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Wyoming Congresswoman Liz Cheney and House Majority Whip James Clyburn on finding common ground in today's political climate
House Majority Whip Rep. Jim Clyburn, D-S.C., said Sunday that President Biden’s plummeting approval ratings have little to do with his performance and more to do with the country being "in a bad place," largely due to the coronavirus pandemic.
During a bipartisan sit-down interview on "Fox News Sunday" with Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., Clyburn was asked by host Chris Wallace to weigh in on what’s gone "wrong" with Biden, citing his poor approval ratings, which are the lowest of his presidency at 43%.
BIDEN APPEARS TO MOCK AMERICANS' INTELLIGENCE, QUESTIONS WHETHER 'THEY'D UNDERSTAND' SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES
"I don't know that anything is going wrong," Clyburn explained. "The country's in a bad place. We have a pandemic. I happen to chair the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus [Crisis], and I can tell you you'd be surprised at how much went wrong with trying to combat this virus. And that put everybody in a pretty bad way. 
"Education is being called into question because kids were out of school and couldn’t go to school, people were out of work," he continued. "And now we're trying to bring the economy back, and you've got all of these other things happening. So the country's in a bad place. It was a real tough time to become president of the United States. It's just that simple."

      WASHINGTON, DC - NOVEMBER 06: U.S. President Joe Biden speaks during a press conference in the State Dinning Room at the White House on November 6, 2021 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Samuel Corum/Getty Images)
      
Clyburn also said the political climate is more polarized now because of the prevalence of social media.
"It’s a little worse now, and I think it’s because of the advent of social media," he said. "People tend to try to answer everything in sound bites, and that can be very disconcerting. And so, I think that that’s what’s caused the problem more than anything else."

      WASHINGTON, DC - SEPTEMBER 30: Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) returns to her office, while she talks with Rep. James Clyburn after a bill enrollment ceremony for H.R. 5305, the Extending Government Funding and Delivering Emergency Assistance Act, on Thursday, Sept. 30, 2021 in Washington, DC.  (Kent Nishimura / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images)
      
Clyburn’s comments, which were pre-taped Friday, came hours before the House passed the $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill, which Biden hailed as a "monumental step forward for the nation." The bill now heads to Biden's desk for approval, clearing the path for Democrats to work on passing their $1.75 trillion social spending package.
Clyburn, Cheney and Wallace were all honored at the 2021 Panetta Institute for Public Policy Jefferson-Lincoln Awards in California on Saturday.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News contributor Ari Fleischer says 'odd' moments like this aren't beneficial for a vice president who has so few successes.
Politico went to bat for Vice President Harris, insisting her critics were wrong to accuse her of using a French accent during remarks she made on her overseas trip to France. 
Harris toured the Institut Pasteur in Paris and spoke alongside a group of scientists to tout the U.S.-France alliance on scientific research. 
She also made comments about how politicians should operate more like scientists.
KAMALA HARRIS PANNED FOR USING ‘FRENCH ACCENT’ TO FRENCH SCIENTISTS WHILE TOURING PARISIAN LAB
"One of the things people in politics and government should really take from the approach of scientists- scientists operate with a hypothesis. I love that," Harris said on Monday. "A hypothesis- it's well-thought-out, it's well-planned, they start out with a hypothesis and then they test it out knowing invariably, you're trying something for the first time, there will be glitches, there will be mistakes. Then everyone gets together, no one gets beat up about it, you analyze it- what went wrong, reevaluate, update the hypothesis and start again."
Harris then pivoted to what politicians do, mocking how they always stick to "The Plan" they campaigned on but repeatedly appeared to change her dialect whenever she used that phrase. 
ARI FLEISCHER ON KAMALA HARRIS' ‘ODD’ FRENCH ACCENT: IT'D BE BETTER IF SHE WERE ‘JUST NORMAL’ 
"In government, we campaign with ‘The Plan,’" Harris said. "Uppercase T, uppercase P, ‘The Plan!’ And then the environment is such we're expected to defend ‘The Plan’ even when the first time we roll it out there may be some glitches and it's time to reevaluate and then do it again."
Her remarks went viral on Wednesday with critics pointing out the jarring vocal shift. 
However, a report published in Politico Europe about Harris' "unnoticed" visit to Paris tried to dispel the notion she attempted to use a French accent. 
"The political battles playing out in Washington D.C. over the social safety net and climate bills the Biden administration is trying to get passed in Congress spilled into Harris’ visit when right-wing political operatives like Abigail Marone, the press secretary for Republican Missouri Senator Josh Hawley, erroneously accused her of putting on a French accent during a short speech to the Pasteur institute," Politico Europe senior correspondent Rym Momatz wrote before quoting Marone's tweet. 
MIKE POMPEO SLAMS KAMALA HARRIS FOR DOTING FAKE FRENCH ACCENT: ‘MORE THAN EMBARRASSING
Momatz pushed back at critics who mocked her reporting on Twitter and accused her of trying to curry favor with the vice president. 
"What a bizarre accusation to make. Why make up sth anyone w/language skills can fact-check when there's enough to criticize VP Harris on that's factual?" Momatz asked. "But apparently I'm at the orders of the @VP's office. Honestly, the least they [could] have done is give me an exclusive [interview]."

      Vice President Kamala Harris tours the Institut Pasteur in Paris, France on Tuesday, November 9, 2021. Sarahbeth Maney/Pool via REUTERS
      
Harris has been widely seen as the standard-bearer for the Democratic Party in 2024 if President Biden does not run for a second term, but polls have her viewed even more negatively than her boss.
A recent USA Today/Suffolk University poll showed Harris having a 28% approval rating among Americans, which is ten points lower than Biden. 
The vice president has long been criticized for her handling of the border crisis after she was tapped by Biden to address the source of the surge of migration. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
LAS VEGAS – Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida spotlighted his conservative credentials, touted his achievements in office and pledged to continue his fight as he addressed the annual leadership meeting of the Republican Jewish Coalition, a major conference of party leaders, activists and mega-donors.
"In the state of Florida, I am walking that line. I am standing my ground. I’m not backing down," DeSantis emphasized as he spoke Saturday on the third day of the Las Vegas conference. "We’ve done an awful lot in the state of Florida. We have a lot more to do, and I have only begun to fight."
The conservative governor has seen his popularity surge among Republican voters in his state and around the nation over the past year and a half, thanks in large part to his combative pushback against COVID-19 restrictions amid the coronavirus pandemic. 
And he took aim Saturday at President Biden’s efforts to increase the nation’s vaccination rate through mandates.
CRUZ CALLS 2021 ELECTIONS ‘ENORMOUSLY CONSEQUENITAL' - DOESN'T RULE OUT 2024 RUN
"We have to stand right now against these Biden mandates," the governor stressed. "He does not have the constitutional authority to do what he’s trying to do, and if he can get away with this — trust me — you haven’t seen nothing yet."
"No mandates, no restrictions, we are going to take our freedom back, and we have to do that right now," DeSantis said to applause.

      GOP Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida addresses the Republican Jewish Coalition's annual leadership meeting Nov. 6, 2021 in Las Vegas
      (Fox News )
DeSantis, a former congressman who was narrowly elected Florida governor in 2018, isn’t expected to face as challenging a reelection fight. Florida used to be the nation’s toughest general election battleground, but it has increasingly trended red over the past couple of cycles.
RNC CHAIR MCDANIEL SAYS VIRGINIA A ‘TEST RUN’ FOR 2022 MIDTERMS 
"When I got elected governor in 2018 there were about 300,000 more registered Democrats in the state of Florida than Republicans. And as I stand here before you today I can happily report that, for the first time in the history of the state of Florida, we have more registered Republicans than registered Democrats," the governor said.

      Ron DeSantis, governor of Florida, speaks during a news conference at a Regeneron monoclonal antibody clinic in Pembroke Pines, Fla. Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021. 
      ( Eva Marie Uzcategui/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
"We have a number-one ranked public university system five years running by U.S. News and World Report," DeSantis noted, also touting the Sunshine State’s creation of new jobs. 
He also showcased his conservative achievements.
"I’ve appointed five constitutionalists to the Florida Supreme Court. We took the court from being the most liberal court in the United States to now being the most conservative state supreme court in the United States," the governor said. 
And he noted his efforts to ban sanctuary cities, suing the Biden administration over what he called the president’s "reckless border policies," signing multiple bills tightening voter accessibility rules and banning the teaching of critical race theory.
DeSantis also took aim at elements in the far left of the Democratic Party over its lukewarm support for Israel, charging that "the woke are anti-Semitic. They are anti-Israel," which drew loud applause from the audience.
HERE COMES THE FIRST MAJOR 2024 GOP PRESIDENTIAL CATTLE CALL
DeSantis was one of eight prominent Republicans speaking at the four-day confab that pundits view as potential 2024 GOP presidential hopefuls. 
Former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, who served as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations under President Donald Trump, also spoke. 

      Former GOP Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina, who served as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations in the Trump administration, addresses the Republican Jewish Coalition's annual leadership meeting Nov. 6, 2021 in Las Vegas.
      (Fox News )
In a foreign policy-centric speech, Haley blasted the current president, arguing, "You cannot count on the Biden Administration to stop the Iranian nuclear program."
And she claimed that "the Biden team wants to get back into the business of giving hundreds of millions of dollars to the Palestinians and promoting a two-state solution." 
Haley charged that "the Palestinian leadership has never viewed the peace process as a way of achieving peace with Israel. They have always viewed it as a way to destroy Israel."
"My promise to you is that I will always be the loud and proud ambassador in support of the United States and Israel," she pledged.
Haley also pointed to the high policy stakes in the 2022 midterm elections, when the GOP aims to win back majorities in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate.
"Those elections are about whether we stop socialism, defend our border, return to fiscal sanity and end liberal indoctrination in our schools.  And yes, they are also about standing strong for our best ally in the Middle East," she said. "Join me in fighting for victory in 2022."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Allies says he'll announce run soon 
Former President Donald Trump, in an exclusive interview with Fox News, said he will "probably" wait until after the 2022 midterm elections to formally announce whether he will run for president in 2024.
"I am certainly thinking about it and we’ll see," Trump said. "I think a lot of people will be very happy, frankly, with the decision, and probably will announce that after the midterms."
The former president said that timeline was "probably appropriate."
TRUMP ON WHETHER HE WILL RUN FOR PRESIDENT IN 2024: 'I DON'T THINK WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A CHOICE'
"It doesn’t mean I will," Trump said of whether he will stick to that timeline. "It’s probably appropriate, but a lot of people are waiting for that decision to be made."
The former president said that "a lot of great people who are thinking about running are waiting for that decision, because they’re not going to run if I run." 

      Then-President Trump in November 2020.
      (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky, File)
"We have a lot, they’re all very well named," he said of the GOP White House hopefuls. "But almost all of them said if I run, they’ll never run."
He added: "And that’s nice, primarily because it shows a great degree of loyalty and respect."
As for a potential running mate, Trump said there are "a lot of great people in the Republican Party."

      Trump before boarding Air Force One at in Andrews Air Force Base, Md., in December 2020.
      (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik, File)
When asked whether he would consider Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, Trump said: "He’s a good man, but we have a lot of great people. He’s been good."
TRUMP SLAMS BIDEN SPENDING BILLS AS ‘GREEN NEW DEAL,’ WARNS DEMOCRATS WILL LOSE DOZENS OF HOUSE SEATS IN 2022
Addressing whether he would consider former ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, the former president said that she "every once in a while goes off the rails, and she comes back, which is nice." 
"She said she’d never run if I ran, which I think is a good sign of respect," Trump said. "I was very good to her, I thought she did a very good job at what she did with the United Nations. She did an excellent job."

      Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in February 2021.
      (REUTERS/Marco Bello, File)
But he added: "But we have, there are so many people that are really good that would be great for that." 
"So, you know, it’s very early to be talking about it," he said.
In September, Trump was also asked about his 2024 plans.
"I don't think we're going to have a choice," Trump told Fox News in a September exclusive interview. "It is getting to a point where we really have no choice."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed

Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas told the Senate Judiciary Committee Tuesday that the American immigration system is "broken," while stating that not all of the 1.2 million illegal immigrants with final removal orders should be deported.
Committee ranking member Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, pointed to a Sept. 30 memo in which Mayorkas said "the fact that an individual is a removable non-citizens should not alone be the basis of an enforcement action against them." Grassley then asked if this still applied to those who already have final removal order against them.
GOP SEN. LANKFORD DEMANDS MAYORKAS CLARIFY TESTIMONY ON MIGRANTS AFTER LEAKED DOCUMENTS CONTRADICT HIM
"We cannot remove 1.2 million individuals," Mayorkas said, speaking to the impracticability of deporting so many people. He then called into question the validity of those orders.
"I would not necessarily accept the fact that all of them have received due process," he said.

      Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas testifies during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2021, on Capitol Hill in Washington.
      (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)
When asked if any of the 1.2 million people should be deported, Mayorkas said those "who pose a public safety threat, who pose a national security threat, who pose a border security threat," should be deported from the U.S.
Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., defended DHS’s use of "prosecutorial discretion" in deciding which deportation cases to pursue. Coons claimed that "an approach that effectively makes any undocumented immigrant a priority is actually making no one a priority."
TEXAS DEM RYAN GUILLEN SWITCHES TO REPUBLICAN PARTY OVER DEFUNDING THE POLICE, ‘CHAOS’ ON THE SOUTHERN BORDER
Mayorkas agreed, arguing that discretion is warranted both because DHS has "limited resources," and also because it is "a matter of justice" not to prioritize those who have become "contributing members of our society."
Sen. Cory Booker, D-N.J., asked about those the administration was deporting under Title 42, under which the CDC calls for people from certain countries to be kept out of the U.S. out of concern of spreading coronavirus.
Booker asked if the administration might rescind that order, but Mayorkas said they do not plan to do so.
"Senator, the CDC conducted an independent study with respect to the Title 42 authority," he said. "It determined that the public health imperative required its continued use. The Delta variant was a very significant reason."
Mayorkas said that Democrats have been there, but he was unsure whether any of them were on the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Sen. Lindsey Graham grilled Mayorkas on the Biden administration’s withdrawal from Afghanistan, particularly the vetting of Afghan refugees. Graham asked how many people who the U.S. flew out of Afghanistan to come to the U.S. were vetted.
"It is our policy to vet and screen 100 percent of them," Mayorkas said.
"So 100 percent of those people that got on the plane were vetted. That's your testimony under oath?" Graham asked.
Mayorkas reiterated that "it is our policy to do so."

      Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas, left, is greeted by Senate Judiciary Committee Chair Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., during a hearing by the committee, Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2021, on Capitol Hill in Washington. 
      (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)
"I don't care what your policy is," Graham fired back. "I'm asking how many people were vetted before they got on the plane."
ABBOTT USES O'ROURKE'S PAST WORDS ON BORDER WALL AGAINST HIM AS TEXAS DEMOCRAT LAUNCHES CHALLENGE
"I would posit, and I will confirm this, that well over 99 percent of them were fully screened and vetted before they boarded a flight," Mayorkas said, adding that anyone who was not was then vetted mid-flight. If any bad information came from that, he said, that person would then have to go through immigration proceedings.
Mayorkas then realized there was confusion, when Graham asked if it was true that 99% of the people getting on planes in Afghanistan were vetted. He said he had been referring to those who boarded planes in a different country that were U.S.-bound, and that he did not have knowledge of how many were vetted in Afghanistan.

      A man prepares a stall of souvenirs and drinks to sell to people crossing into the United States at the San Ysidro Port of Entry, Monday, Nov. 8, 2021, in Tijuana, Mexico.
      (AP Photo/Gregory Bull)
When speaking to Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, Mayorkas explained that the U.S. was working with outside countries that would accept refugees flown out of Afghanistan, and then the U.S. would transport them from those countries to the U.S. 
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, focused on facilities where children have been detained in sub-par conditions, as migrants have flooded the border. The Republican pointed to the "cage"-like structures they are held in, and how Democratic leadership has not even visited the facilities, while showing photographs of a detention center in Donna, Texas.
Mayorkas confirmed that neither President Biden nor Vice President Harris have been to the Donna facility Cruz referred to. 
"Has any Democratic member of this committee given a damn enough to see the children being locked up by Joe Biden and Kamala Harris because of your failed immigration policies?" Cruz asked.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Doug Baker, vice president of industry relations at FMI, on the supply chain challenges heading into the U.S. holiday season.
FIRST ON FOX: Senate Republicans on Wednesday are expected to sound the alarm on the rising cost of Thanksgiving – from turkey to side dishes, gas prices, and more – and blame Democrats for failing to work on a bipartisan basis to address the supply chain crisis and labor shortage driving inflation.
Sen. Boozman, the top Republican on the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, and Senate Republican Conference Chairman John Barrasso are expected to lead a number of their colleagues at a press conference Wednesday in highlighting their concerns of costs going up for the average American family.
"There's no turkey on the table, no heat in the oven, and people can't afford gas to drive to see family," a GOP aide told Fox News, previewing the press conference. "With massive inflation and a supply chain crisis that won't quit, Joe Biden won't be getting any thanks from American families this Thanksgiving." 
The aide added that that Senate Republicans are "standing up for families and farmers against the tidal wave of taxes, spending, and debt that Democrats have on the menu."
REPUBLICAN SENATORS UNITE IN CHALLENGE AGAINST BIDEN'S VACCINE MANDATE
According to Bureau of Labor Statistics data GOP aides shared with Fox News, Thanksgiving turkey is up 18% from last year – along with traditional side dishes like potatoes, which data shows rose 17% from last year, and green beans, which rose 39% higher. The aides shared data that also showed eggs, bacon and butter all almost 30% higher than their prices last year.
Republican aides warned that Americans "will definitely feel this pinch" at grocery store checkout lines as they prepare for the upcoming holiday.

      A volunteer packs onions in the warehouse of the Alameda County Community Food Bank in Oakland, Calif., on Nov. 5, 2021. (AP Photo/Terry Chea)
      (AP Photo/Terry Chea)
"With regard to inflation, this will be the most expensive Thanksgiving for the American people in the history of the country," Barrasso said. "Who would have believed that in just 10 months, Joe Biden could take us to a 30 year record high of inflation?"
Republicans will also highlight the increasing cost of gas – saying they are at the highest they have been in seven years. An aide told Fox News that the average American can expect to pay almost 25% more to heat their home, and an increase in gas prices when traveling to family during the holiday season.
"On average, 50 million Americans take the roads for Thanksgiving," Barrasso said. "The average cost of a gallon of gasoline is now up a dollar per gallon from what it was when Joe Biden came in office."
Meanwhile, Boozman is expected to stress that the increase in prices are not the fault of the farmers, truck drivers, or grocers, but, instead, "falls squarely on the Democrats" for failing to work with Republicans to address issues "driving food inflation to levels that have not been seen since the Carter administration."
Republican concerns come after the Labor Department reported last week that U.S. consumer prices accelerated at the fastest annual pace in more than 30 years, as supply chain bottlenecks and materials shortages persisted, and gasoline prices continue to increase.
The consumer price index climbed 6.2% year over year in October, according to the Labor Department. The increase marked the largest annual gain since November 1990. Prices rose 0.9% month over month. 
Energy prices jumped 4.8% last month and were up 30% over the past year. The October increase was largely the result of a 6.1% rise in the cost of gasoline.
Food prices, meanwhile, edged up 0.9% last month as the food at home category saw a 1% increase. All food prices are up 5.3% year over year.
Boozman and Barrasso are expected to be joined by a number of GOP colleagues Wednesday--including Sens. John Thune, Rick Scott, Deb Fischer, Jerry Moran, John Cornyn, Cynthia Lummis, John Hoeven, Dan Sullivan and Roger Marshall. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
EXCLUSIVE: House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy on Monday unveiled the first round of "Young Guns" – promising candidates running in the 2022 midterm elections - when the GOP aims to win back the chamber’s majority from the Democrats.
The list released by the longtime congressman from California, which was shared first with Fox News on Monday, includes eight candidates running in some of the nation’s most competitive congressional districts in next year’s elections.
On the list are former Rep. Bruce Poliquin of Maine (ME-02), Derrick Van Orden of Wisconsin (WI-03), Esther Joy King of Illinois (IL-17), Tom Kean Jr. of New Jersey (NJ-07), Amanda Adkins of Kansas (KS-03), Ryan Zinke of Montana (MT-01/02), and from two from Texas - Monica De La Cruz Hernandez (TX-15) and Wesley Hunt (TX-38).
HOUSE GOP REELECTION ARM EXPANDS LIST OF VULNERABLE 2022 DEMOCRATS IN WAKE OF LAST WEEK'S VIRGINIA VICTORIES
The 14-year-old "Young Guns" program, led by McCarthy in conjunction with the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC), the House GOP reelection arm, helps equip Republican candidates across the country who show the promise of running successful campaigns with "the tools they need" to win. The program is divided into three levels, and to make the list, candidates have to exhibit potential by meeting thresholds for campaign fundraising and organization.
In the 2020 elections, 25 of the 36 candidates designated "Young Guns" were elected to Congress. And the NRCC notes that the program has helped elect over 150 GOP members of Congress since its inception.

      House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., speaks during a news conference at the Capitol in Washington, Friday, Nov. 5, 2021. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana)
      (AP)
"When we started this program 14 years ago, our goal was to ensure we had the most credentialed candidates in the toughest races across the country. This standard has been met as the Young Guns program has helped elect over 150 members — and with our current class we expect to significantly add to this total when we take back the House next November," McCarthy told Fox News.
"I’m confident these eight individuals represent the future of the Republican Party and when elected will hit the ground running to get America back on track," he added.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS RELEASE INITIAL LIST OF 2022 CANDIDATES TO WATCH
While Republicans lost the White House and their Senate majority in the 2020 cycle, they defied expectations and took a big bite out of the Democrats’ large House of Representatives majority. The GOP needs a net gain of just five seats next year in the 435-seat chamber to recapture the majority it lost in the 2018 election.
The NRCC last week expanded its 57-member offensive target list of what it considers vulnerable House Democrats, adding 13 representatives, bringing the total to an ambitious 70 Democrats it will target ahead of next year's midterms.

      Virginia Gov.-elect Glenn Youngkin arrives to speak at an election night party in Chantilly, Va., early Wednesday, Nov. 3, 2021, after he defeated Democrat Terry McAuliffe. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik) 
      ((AP Photo/Andrew Harnik))
The move came after major GOP victories for governor, lieutenant governor, attorney general, and state lawmakers in Virginia - which now-President Biden carried by 10 points in last year’s election and where Republican candidates had not won statewide contests in a dozen years – and legislative pickups in the solidly blue state of New Jersey.
"If you're a Democrat and President Biden won your seat by 16 points, you're in a competitive race next year. You are no longer safe," McCarthy emphasized last Wednesday.
The announcement of the initial "Young Guns" list came hours before former President Donald Trump was scheduled to headline a major NRCC fundraising dinner, which is being held in Tampa, Florida.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
An Arizona school board has said it will hire a private investigator after several parents claimed Scottsdale Unified School District's (SUSD) Governing Board President Jann-Michael Greenburg collected personal data on at least 47 parents.
On Friday, the board announced it was in the process of hiring an "independent forensic investigator" to determine whether school resources were used to collect the data on outspoken parents.
ARIZONA SCHOOL BOARD PRESIDENT KEPT SENSITIVE PERSONAL INFORMATION ON PROTESTING PARENTS, DOCUMENTS SUGGEST

      Scottsdale school board President Jann-Michael Greenburg (Scottsdale Unified School District) Parents protest at a Scottsdale school board meeting. Photo courtesy Amy Carney (Amy Carney)
      ((Scottsdale Unified School District/Amy Carney)
Divorce records, bankruptcy documents, mortgage statements and photos of parents and children who were critical of coronavirus-related mandates were allegedly compiled in a folder called the CAN Network, first reported local news outlet, Scottsdale Independent. 
CAN Network appears to stand for the Community Advocacy Network – a group of parents that formed last year to advocate against mask mandates and for in-person learning.
Candidate for the Scottsdale Unified Governing Board, Amy Carney, told a local Fox News outlet she was one of five parents included on an email with the board president who accidentally shared a screenshot of his Google drive and revealed the data collection. 
ARIZONA PARENTS RIP SPYING SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR: 'WE THE PARENTS ARE THE PEOPLE'
Greenburg does not appear to be the owner of the Google drive, which is listed under his father’s name Mark Greenburg, but the board president was one of three other individuals who had access to the folder. 

      Scottsdale school board President Jann-Michael Greenburg
      (Scottsdale Unified School District)
Fox News could not reach Greenburg for comment. The National School Boards Association (NSBA), of which it appears SUSD is a member, also did not respond to Fox News’ request for comment.
The Scottsdale dossier comes after the Justice Department (DOJ) issued a memo directing the FBI to investigate threats of violence against school board members by parents. Reports this week indicate that the NSBA collaborated with both the Department of Justice and the White House before sending a letter comparing parents to domestic terrorists to President Biden. DOJ issued its memo just days after the NSBA sent the letter to Biden.
"It is important to emphasize the District did not create, maintain or have control over the dossier," the SUSD said in a statement. "The information it contains appears to be largely from public documents, and parents are rightly upset that certain data, photography and video has been collected and shared.
"By initiating an investigation, we can move forward with our mission of educating our students with the highest level of integrity and transparency," the statement added. 
More than 700 signatures have been collected by parents and community members calling for the removal of Greenburg from his elected position.
Fox News' Tyler O'Neil contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Rep. Matt Cartwright, D-Pa., joins ‘Fox News Live’ to provide insight into how President Biden’s Build Back Better plan will impact inflation. 
President Biden’s $1.75 trillion social spending package will see a vote on the House floor on this week before being sent to the Senate, progressive Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., said Sunday.
Jayapal, appearing on MSNBC’s "The Sunday Show with Jonathan Capehart," said she believes that Biden’s Build Back Better Act will move forward in the House this week.
"Yes is the short answer - we will have a vote this week," Jayapal said.
The progressive representative said that Senate Democrats and Biden will have to "get this across the finish line in the framework that it was presented."
The House version of the Build Back Better Act is a $1,750,000,000,000 package that Democrats are trying to get through both chambers without needing Republican support. By passing it through a process known as budget reconciliation, Democrats do not have to worry about garnering 60 Senate votes to defeat a filibuster.
The act includes a number of provisions on both legal and illegal immigration.  Other provisions include $150 billion for housing, universal pre-K, and lowering health care costs, Jayapal said.
Moderate Democrats had said that they would not vote on the bill until the Congressional Budget Office produced their score for the bill, which would estimate how bills would impact the budget by looking at factors such as spending, revenue and deficits. Jayapal said that the House ultimately will not wait for the score on the whole bill, but will have enough information from CBO on the bill to move forward.
CBO Director Phillip Swagel said last week that his agency would release analyses of portions of the bill as they are ready.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Democratic California Rep. Jackie Speier said Tuesday she will not seek reelection in 2022, the latest member to retire ahead of midterm elections where Republicans are trying to take back the House majority.
Speier released a video on Tuesday announcing her retirement from office after 12 years of service in the House.
The California Democrat recounted "lying on an airstrip in the jungles of Guyana with five bullet holes" in her body after she and her 1978 congressional fact-finding delegation were shot by People's Temple members in Guyana the same day as the Jonestown Massacre and how she pledged to go into public service should she survive.
DEMS PUSH RESOLUTION TO CENSURE GOSAR OVER VIOLENT CARTOON DEPICTING AOC, BIDEN
"I lived, and I served," Speier said. "It has been a remarkable journey that has surpassed my wildest dreams."

      Rep. Jackie Speier, D-Calif., attends a news conference outside the Capitol to announce the bipartisan I Am Vanessa Guillén Act, on Wednesday, September 16, 2020, named after Army Spc. Vanessa Guillén, who was murdered while stationed at Fort Hood in Texas. (Photo By Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
      (Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
Speier announced that she "would not be a candidate for Congress" in the upcoming 2022 election cycle, saying it was "time" for her to "come home" and "be more than a weekend wife, mother and friend."
The California Democrat said her tenure in public service for her community "has been an extraordinary honor" and that she was "deeply touched" by her community's support.
Speier vowed to do her "level best" for her remaining year in office and urged her constituents to "protect our precious democracy," calling it "fragile and vulnerable."
The retirement comes as another blow to the Democrats' already razor-thin majority as they head into a predicted red wave.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Retired Four Star General Jack Keane on satellite images showing Chinese mockups of U.S. Warships and tensions escalate with China.
China is likely not preparing for any imminent military action against Taiwan despite recent revelations that the country built replica U.S. warships for ballistic missile testing, experts tell Fox News.
The U.S. Naval Institute (USNI News) obtained photos of the replica vessels – including an aircraft carrier – in the Taklamakan Desert. The mock-ups, which were "substantially complete by early October" 2021, appear to signal China’s intent to develop technology and methods to counter these U.S. assets. 
The revelation has stirred up increased concern among U.S. officials in Congress and the Pentagon about Chinese aggression.

      China's type 055 guided-missile destroyer Nanchang sails during the naval exercise Joint Sea-2021 on Oct. 19, 2021 in the Western part of the Pacific Ocean. (Photo by Sun Zifa/China News Service via Getty Images)
      (Sun Zifa/China News Service via Getty Images)
"We’re witnessing one of the largest shifts in global geostrategic power the world has witnessed," Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Mark Milley said last week. "They are clearly challenging us regionally and their aspiration is to challenge the United States globally."
Milley called the test "very concerning" and "very close" to being a "Sputnik moment," referring to the Soviet Union's 1957 launch of the world’s first space satellite
China punishes mockery, questions about historical figures: 'This is self-wounding'
In China, the government suggested citizens stock up on necessities for an emergency, causing scattered concern that Beijing might order action against Taiwan. However, some experts say that any "hot" conflict between the two nations is not imminent. 
"I do not believe there is an imminent threat of an amphibious invasion of Taiwan by the PRC," President of the Institute of World Politics and former Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy James Anderson told Fox News. "These developments do point to the PRC’s seriousness about developing a wide range of capabilities that could be used in a Taiwan scenario or other scenarios." 

      Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China CPC Central Committee, Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, delivers an important speech at a ceremony marking the 100th anniversary of the founding of the CPC in Beijing, capital of China, July 1, 2021. 
      (Ju Peng/Xinhua via Getty Images)
China would signal its intent to take action against Taiwan by first deploying a number of "unconventional pressures" and "menacing activities" including cyberattacks, troop build-ups and ship realignment in the region – not to mention a ramp-up of diplomatic posturing, Anderson explained.  "There would be a fair number of indicators," he said, not just a "bolt from the blue."
However, the size of the Chinese navy and its growing sophistication is cause for concern – just not cause for immediate action by the U.S. military. The military does need to adjust it tactics and weapons developments to account for the revelations from China, but those are long-term actions. 
Pentagon, Congress increasingly worried about the rise of Chinese military
The U.S. already maintains a presence in the region, including a recently-revealed group of Special Forces operators who have been training the Taiwanese military. 
While a "hot" conflict is not likely to happen imminently, China’s activity makes it an increasing certainty that action will happen. How the U.S. responds to China’s eventual attack will depend on the president at the time, according to Isaac Stone Fish, CEO and founder of Strategy Risks as well as the author of a monthly column on China risk for Barron's. 

      Secretary of State Antony Blinken speaks during a meeting of the United Nations Security Council, Thursday, Sept. 23, 2021, during the 76th Session of the U.N. General Assembly in New York. 
      (AP Photo/John Minchillo, Pool)
"The bigger question on whether the U.S. and China go to war over Taiwan is less about what Beijing does and more about whether Biden or his successors want to deploy military means to counter the invasion when it happens," Stone Fish told Fox News. 
Biden and Secretary of State Antony Blinken over the past two weeks reiterated that the U.S. will support and defend Taiwan against any Chinese military action, saying "There is no change to our policy." 
China's wealthy seek new ways to move money, avoid Xi Jinping's redistribution policy
The biggest unknown, Stone Fish argues, is the elite power politics in China: Without knowing the stresses President Xi Jinping faces within his own party, the U.S. cannot know whether he may feel the need to act sooner or later.
China’s military remains largely untested, which means all conflict remains theoretical at best, and China may still eventually convince Taiwan to accept a diplomatic situation and avoid any conflict with the U.S. 
However, the U.S. can instead prepare for an eventual conflict by laying the groundwork now by preparing American citizens for that reality. 
"The U.S. government needs to do a better job selling this to American people, and the question of how do we communicate to the American people that China and the CCP may be or is the enemy we need to be fighting while protecting Chinese people and Chinese Americans," Stone Fish said. "That way if we do go to war with China over Taiwan, we avoid the atrocities we faced domestically in World War II with the Japanese population."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
EXCLUSIVE: Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis on Monday announced his plans to run for re-election in 2022, saying he has "delivered on all fronts" in his first term leading the Sunshine State, and telling Fox News that he's "only just begun to fight." 
DeSantis formally filed paperwork to make his re-election campaign official. DeSantis was elected in 2018, and his current term is expected to expire in January 2023. 
When I became governor, I pledged to foster economic opportunity, support K-12 education, usher in a new era for Florida’s Everglades and water resources, ensure the integrity of our elections and stand for public safety and the rule of law," DeSantis told Fox News. 

      A portrait of Florida Governor Ron DeSantis and First Lady Casey DeSantis
      (Office of the Florida Governor)
DeSantis said he has "delivered on all fronts: Florida’s economy is strong, we’ve boosted teacher pay, made historic investments in Everglades restoration and water quality, signed strong election integrity legislation, provided unparalleled support for law enforcement and appointed strong constitutionalists to our state courts." 
"I also protected individual Floridians and small businesses by keeping Florida open and stood up for students and parents by ensuring schools provided in-person instruction and by championing the rights of parents," DeSantis continued. "We’ve also taken on Big Tech censorship, banned sanctuary cities, ensured that municipalities cannot defund law enforcement and stood up to the Biden regime." 

      Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis gestures during a news conference Sunday, April 4, 2021, at the Manatee County Emergency Management office in Palmetto, Fla. (Associated Press)
      
He added: "And I’ve only just begun to fight."
At this point, DeSantis only faces on Republican challenger in the GOP primary -- John Joseph Mercadante, who mounted a GOP gubernatorial bid in the state's primary in 2018. 

      Florida Governor Ron DeSantis announced that his state would be funding the police and other first responders "and then some" with $1,000 bonuses for doing their life-saving work amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. 
      
There are a number of Democrats who have declared their candidacy for the Democrat primary--including Charlie Joseph Crist, Nikki Fried, David Nelson Freeman, Ivan Graham, Jonathan Karns, Amaro Lionheart, Alexander Lundmark, Timothy Lemont Mosley, Annettee Taddeo, Robert Lee Wills, and Randy Zapata.
Independent David Wayne Gizmo Wexler and Frank Hughs Jr., who has no party affiliation, have also announced their intention to run. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Three snow leopards in a Nebraska zoo have died from complications due to COVID-19. 
The Lincoln Children’s Zoo also announced that two Sumatran tigers, Axl and Kumar, contracted the virus but have recovered. 

(iStock)
"Our leopards, Ranney, Everest, and Makalu, were beloved by our entire community inside and outside of the zoo," a statement from the zoo read. "This loss is truly heartbreaking, and we are all grieving together."
SURGEON GENERAL: COURT'S BLOCK OF VACCINE MANDATE ‘WOULD BE A SETBACK FOR PUBLIC HEALTH’
The zoo insisted that it continues to take every COVID-19 precaution to prevent the spread of the virus to humans and animals. 
The zoo first reported the animals had tested positive for the virus on Oct. 13 after zoo staff noticed the animals exhibiting symptoms of the disease, CBS News reported. 
Staff treated the animals with steroids and antibiotics to prevent further infection.
MEDIA REACTS DIFFERENTLY AS BEN ROETHLISBERGER AND AARON RODGERS MISS GAME FOR SAME REASON
No other animals at the zoo have shown signs of infection, and the staff has not yet identified the cause of the initial infection. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) maintains that the spread of COVID-19 between humans and animals remains low, though it can happen in some cases, such as the currently-accepted origin of the virus, which says the virus spread from a bat to a human. 
Humans have, however, more easily spread COVID-19 to animals, infecting animals in several cases since the pandemic started. 
DOJ SAYS IT WILL ‘VIGOROUSLY DEFEND’ BIDEN OSHA COVID-19 VACCINE MANDATE IN COURT
One of the most recurrent issues is the infection of mink, which has led to the slaughter of around one million mink across Spain and Holland, while U.S. mink farms in Oregon, Utah, Michigan and Wisconsin each detected cases. 
Humans have also spread the virus to cats and dogs in some cases. 
Animal pharmaceutical company Zoetis developed a COVID-19 vaccine for animals, which has been used to protect primates at zoos across the country. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News contributor Sara Carter reports on cartel killings at the southern border on 'Hannity.'
Four members of the MS-13 street gang were arrested by Border Patrol agents within a 14-hour span this week along with two migrants with previous arrests for alleged sex crimes, authorities said Friday. 
Agents assigned to the Rio Grande Valley in Texas say the four migrants were actively involved in the notorious street gang. Two of them had previously been deported, U.S. Customs and Border Protection said in a news release.  
No further information was provided. Fox News has reached out to the CBP. 
REP GOODEN IN BORDER VISIT, SLAMS SECRECY BEHIND ‘ORGANIZED’ OPERATION TO MOVE MIGRANTS INTO US

      Migrants camp under the International Bridge in Del Rio in September. Border agents nabbed four MS-13 gang members in the Texas' Rio Grande Valley within a 14-hour span this week, authorities said Friday. (Rep. August Pfluger.)
      
On Friday, six migrants were taken into custody near the border city of Roma, CBP said. One of them had an open warrant out of Orange County, Florida for lascivious battery. 
A 37-year-old Guatemalan citizen was arrested Tuesday by border agents after having illegally entered the U.S. near McAllen, Texas, border officials said. 
A record check revealed he had a previous conviction for lewd lascivious behavior toward a child younger than 16. He was sentenced to 21 months in prison in that case, the CBP said. 

      The violent street gang MS-13 has made its presence felt in small towns and suburbs.
      (Fox News)
The apprehensions come amid a surge of illegal crossings as the federal government struggles to secure the border. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott has criticized the Biden administration for the influx of migrants into his state. 
As a result, Abbott said he has dispatched National Guard troops and the state Department of Public Safety to the border to contain migrant caravans crossing into the U.S.

      Texas law enforcement stopped a smuggling operation at the border on Tuesday. (Texas DPS)
      
"At the direction of Governor Greg Abbott, the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) and the Texas Military Department are committed to securing the Texas border. As part of Operation Lone Star (OLS), Texas DPS continues to enforce all state violations of law including, but not limited to, criminal trespass, criminal mischief, smuggling and human trafficking," DPS said in a statement.
In addition, the state has put a $250 million down payment on new border wall construction.
On Tuesday, Texas authorities arrested a suspected 17-year-old human smuggler attempting to bring seven migrants into the U.S. on a raft illegally. Rafts have been seen coming across the border for several months without much resistance.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
A 13-year-old boy carjacking suspect in St. Louis, Missouri, is hospitalized in stable condition after being shot by the alleged victim of the crime.Police say the shooting happened Monday night. A 37-year-old woman was getting out of her car near her home when two young men approached and asked to use her phone. She told them she didn't have one. He was with an older teen, about 16 years old.MISSOURI AG, SEEKING TO MAKE BIDEN ADMIN FINISH BUILDING WALL, SAYS BORDER CRISIS ‘COMPLETELY AVOIDABLE’
"The other young man said, ‘So, you don’t have a phone?’ I said, ‘No, I don’t.’ And he pulled out his gun and said, ‘Well, give me your keys,’" the woman said.As the second suspect was trying to start the car, the woman told police the 13-year-old was still pointing the gun at her but became distracted, so she pulled out her own gun and shot him."It’s a six-round, and I let the clip loose. All six in fear of my life," the unidentified woman told KSDK. "I am very grateful to be alive."Police later found the boy with a gunshot wound to the leg a block away. He has been remanded to juvenile courts, police said. The second suspect remains on the loose.ALLEGED ST. LOUIS SERIAL KILLER CHARGED IN TWO MURDERS, POSSIBLY LINKED TO FOUR MORE, AUTHORITIES SAY"I hate that it turned out like that. They're so young and have so much life ahead of them. But, it's very upsetting because it's a tangible thing. It's a car. My life can never be replaced," said the woman.
It's another in a growing list of crimes involving young people.
"We can begin to turn this ship around," said James Clark, the Director of Public Safety for the Urban League of Metropolitan St. Louis.
"We have a number of programs and efforts that are working. The solutions start in the neighborhood, on the front porch and in the living room. We've got to take this upcoming cold season, strategize more plans, direct resources to do more outreach and then we've got to prepare for next spring and summer," said Clark.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Pilar Arias is a multimedia journalist with more than 10 years of experience in broadcast, digital and print production. She enjoys covering a wide variety of topics. Follow her on Twitter: @PilarFOXNews.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
‘Sunday Night in America’ host Trey Gowdy breaks down the message voters sent in the GOP’s Virginia victory.
If Republicans want more victories like Glenn Youngkin's in Virginia's gubernatorial election, the party must learn to coalesce around issues relevant to voters and avoid fixating on things "voters care nothing about," Fox News host Trey Gowdy said Sunday.
Youngkin, a first-time candidate who hails from the business wing of the Republican Party, narrowly defeated former Democratic Gov. Terry McAuliffe in a statewide contest with significant national implications.

      Supporters of Republican nominee for Governor of Virginia Glenn Youngkin react as Fox News declares Youngkin has won his race against Democratic Governor Terry McAuliffe and Youngkin will be the next Governor of Virginia during an election night party at a hotel in Chantilly, Virginia, U.S., November 3, 2021.
      (REUTERS/ Elizabeth Frantz)
Tuesday’s election in Virginia, a one-time battleground but still competitive state, is seen as a key barometer ahead of the 2022 midterm elections, when Republicans aim to win back control of both the House of Representatives and the Senate, where the Democrats hold razor-thin majorities.
GOP SEES YOUNGKIN'S VICTORY AS BLUEPRINT TO WIN BACK CONGRESS IN 2022
Gowdy, on "Sunday Night in America" emphasized Youngkin's ability to flip a typically blue state red, noting that "a double-digit political deficit in less than 12 months is rare."
But, he said, Republicans take note of the "why. Why did Glenn Youngkin win and why did Winsome Sears win. What issues did they run on? And can those issues be used in other races? What was their tone and demeanor?" he asked.

      Virginia Gov.-elect Glenn Youngkin tosses a signed basketball to supporters at an election night party in Chantilly, Va., early Wednesday, Nov. 3, 2021, after he defeated Democrat Terry McAuliffe. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
      (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
"To understand elections, we must focus on the why. Why did Republicans win? Why did the state go from Biden to Glenn Youngkin in less than a year? Was it a repudiation on the left, an embrace on the right, or something else?" the host continued.
Youngkin’s emphasis on tapping into the anger of parents over decisions by their local school boards is largely regarded as a blueprint of how to run campaigns in next year’s elections.
Gowdy said that if Republicans could "coalesce around the why and avoid talking about issues that voters care nothing about, there may be more victories next fall. 
"Be mindful of the what, be mindful of the who," he said, "but focus on the why."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Former federal prosecutor Andy McCarthy and attorney Brian Claypool react to the prosecution's closing arguments in the Kyle Rittenhouse case on 'The Story.'
MSNBC snubbed the defense team of Kyle Rittenhouse during closing arguments on Monday after airing the prosecutor's case to the jury that the 18-year-old was guilty of murder. 
Rittenhouse's trial is coming to a close after weeks of intensity in the courtroom with prosecutors arguing to the jury that he intended to kill Joseph Rosenbaum and Anthony Huber as well as Gaige Grosskreutz, who survived following the altercation. The defense argued Rittenhouse was acting in self-defense. 
LIBERAL PUNDITS, TWITTER TROLLS LABEL KYLE RITTENHOUSE  A ‘WHITE SUPREMACIST’
However, after hours of coverage dedicated to the prosecutors, both MSNBC as well as CNN opted out of covering the kickoff of the defense team's closing argument, airing the White House ceremony of President Biden signing the bipartisan infrastructure bill into law. 

      Kyle Rittenhouse, right, looks on as the jury is let out of the room during a break during his trail at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wis., on Monday, Nov. 15, 2021.  Rittenhouse is accused of killing two people and wounding a third during a protest over police brutality in Kenosha, last year.  (Sean Krajacic/The Kenosha News via AP, Pool)
      (Sean Krajacic/The Kenosha News via AP, Pool)
Following some on-air analysis of Biden's legislative achievement, CNN returned to the Rittenhouse case, missing the first hour of the defense's closing argument.
CBS DELETES TWEET STATING RITTENHOUSE TESTIFIED  HE ‘MURDERED TWO MEN’ AFTER BACKLASH
Meanwhile, MSNBC returned to its normally-scheduled programming with "Deadline: White House" host Nicolle Wallace hyping Trump ally Steve Bannon's surrender to authorities after he was indicted for defying a congressional subpoena. 
Long before the Rittenhouse trial even began, the teen was villainized by the liberal media, particularly by MSNBC. 

      Mark Richards, Kyle Rittenhouse's lead attorney, gives his closing argument during Rittenhouse's trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse, in Kenosha, Wisconsin, U.S., November 15, 2021. Sean Krajacic/Pool via REUTERS
      
MSNBC contributor Jason Johnson compared Rittenhouse to a "school shooter" and even declared him "the enemy" while analyst John Heilemann said he was "arguably a domestic terrorist" who crossed state lines "with the intent to shoot people."
"Morning Joe" co-host Joe Scarborough claimed Rittenhouse was "just running around shooting and killing protesters." 
"What a dark, dystopian scene where a 17-year-old boy is carrying around a rifle running around and gunning down protesters," Scarborough added. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Arlington National Cemetery is preparing to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier this Veterans Day, Nov. 11.For the first time in nearly a century, tourists will be allowed to visit the sacred grounds to walk and place flowers at the tomb on Nov. 9 and 10. On Thursday, the public will be invited to observe a joint full honors procession and a flyover with all branches of the military at the cemetery. 
DC-AREA POLICE WARN RESIDENTS AFTER MULTIPLE REPORTS OF POSSIBLE ‘SPIKED DRINKS’ On Nov. 11, 1921, the Unknown was placed on a horse-drawn caisson and carried in a procession through Washington, D.C., and across the Potomac River. A state funeral ceremony was held at Arlington National Cemetery’s new Memorial Amphitheater, and the Unknown was interred in the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, according to the Arlington National Cemetery website.

      President Joe Biden , Vice President Kamala Harris, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Maj. Gen. Omar Jones take part in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery on Memorial Day, May 31, 2021.
      (Getty Images)
Since that day nearly 100 years ago, the tomb has also become the final resting place for an unknown soldier from World War II and another from the Korean War.The hashtag #Tomb100 is already being used across social media platforms to mark the occasion this week.CLIMATE GROUP PROTESTS OUTSIDE OF WHERE MANCHIN DOCKS HIS HOUSEBOATEmilie Adams, 13, from upstate New York, played taps at "Taps in Honored Glory," Sunday, one of the events leading up to Thursday’s commemoration. 
The eighth-grader told FOX television stations this weekend that she had been practicing her trumpet for up to an hour every day since September, and she has been playing the trumpet since the fourth grade. Last month, a historic "first" took place during a guard change at the tomb.
Twenty-four hours a day, soldiers from the 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment, known as "The Old Guard," stand watch over the Tomb. The guards, or sentinels, are chosen for this prestigious and highly selective post only after rigorous training and a demanding series of examinations. The Old Guard has held this distinguished duty since 1948.
Pilar Arias is a multimedia journalist with more than 10 years of experience in broadcast, digital and print production. She enjoys covering a wide variety of topics. Follow her on Twitter: @PilarFOXNews.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy and Republican challenger Jack Ciattarelli fought in New Jersey’s gubernatorial race that was too close to call on Election Day.
New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy had not been expected to have a close race against Republican challenger Jack Ciattarelli, but he nearly lost, coming up with just enough votes to prevail as votes continued to be counted after Election Day had come and gone.
While Murphy's near-loss and Virginia Democrat Terry McAuliffe's defeat has been seen by some as an indicator that Americans are not in favor of current Democratic policies, Murphy claimed Sunday that his policies are exactly what kept him in office.
DEMOCRATIC NEW JERSEY GOV. PHIL MURPHY EKES OUT WIN OVER GOP CHALLENGER CIATTARELLI
"Thank God we put the programs in place we put in place, the actions we took – whether it’s expanding pre-k, raising the minimum wage, investing at all-time record levels in infrastructure -- because I think had we not we might have been swept away as well," Murphy told NBC's "Meet the Press."
Murphy later addressed one area in which Democrats including President Biden have been hammered by Republicans: pandemic-related mandates. Asked about "mandate fatigue" and whether there are plans to lift current restrictions, Murphy acknowledged that it is a real concern but that there is no end date in view at the present time, even if he hopes that the day comes soon.
NEW JERSEY POLLSTER ADMITS HE ‘BLEW IT’ ON GOVERNOR'S RACE, QUESTIONS WHETHER ELECTION POLLS SHOULD BE USED
"Listen, there’s mandate fatigue everywhere, including with yours truly, so let there be no doubt about that," Murphy admitted. "At the moment, no, but my hope is – particularly with our kids under the age of 12 now being able to get the vaccine – that we will someday sooner than later be able to lift the mask mandate that we have at schools. That is my fervent hope."
New Jersey currently requires school children from preschool through 12th grade to wear masks indoors. The state also has a vaccine mandate that requires school workers and others including "all workers in certain health care facilities and high-risk congregate settings, all workers at state agencies, authorities, and colleges and universities and all child care workers" to be vaccinated or face testing at least once or twice per week. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
A North Carolina man has received a pardon after 24 years in prison after revelations about key witness testimony overturned his wrongful conviction. 
Dontae Sharpe, then 19, received a life sentence in 1995 for the murder of George Radcliffe during a drug deal. Sharpe’s conviction rested on the testimony of Charlene Johnson, a 15-year-old girl who said she saw him kill Radcliffe. 
She said that she saw Sharpe and another man put Radcliffe into a truck, then crash it in a vacant lot and dispose of the keys, according to The New York Times. 

      FILE - Dontae Sharpe breathes the air outside the Pitt County Courthouse after a judge determined he could be set free, Thursday, Aug. 22, 2019, in Greenville, N.C. North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper on Friday, Nov. 12, 2021, pardoned Sharpe who spent 24 years behind bars for a murder he has long said he did not commit. Cooper’s pardon of innocence allows Sharpe to apply for compensation up to $750,000 for his wrongful conviction. (Deborah Griffin/The Daily Reflector via AP, File)
      
Johnson recanted only weeks later, saying she wasn’t present at the shooting and that she made up claims based on what investigators told her. 
Sharpe, convicted of first-degree murder, unsuccessfully applied for a new trial until a former state medical examiner testified that the state’s theory of the shooting was not medically or scientifically possible. A judge reopened the case, and new evidence pointed to Sharpe’s innocence. 
RITTENHOUSE FATE ‘IN THE HANDS OF THE JURY,' NOT BIDEN, MEDIA, ATHLETES: MOTHER
"I’m still in a haze, kind of," Sharpe, now 46, said. "When you’re dealing with us human beings, it can go any way, yes and no. I didn’t know what to expect. I was believing for a pardon."
In 2019, Sharpe left prison, and on Friday he received a full pardon from North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper, which will allow him to seek compensation of up to $750,000. 

      North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper updates the public during a press briefing on the coronavirus pandemic at the Emergency Operations Center, Thursday, May 14, 2020, in Raleigh, N.C. (Robert Willett/The News &amp;amp; Observer via AP)
      
The NAACP, which fought for Sharpe’s release, organized vigils in front of the governor’s residence for weeks. The pardon will now allow Sharpe to rebuild his life. 
ASTROWORLD: A LOOK BACK AT DEADLY CONCERTS
"I have carefully reviewed Montoyae Dontae Sharpe’s case and am granting him a Pardon of Innocence," Cooper said in a statement. "Mr. Sharpe and others who have been wrongly convicted deserve to have that injustice fully and publicly acknowledged."
Sharpe attributed his faith in God, his lawyers, his pastors and his mother for the strength and patience to see out his fight and finally achieve his freedom. 
"My freedom is still incomplete as long as there’s still people going to prison wrongfully, if there’s still people in prison wrongfully and there’s still people that are waiting on pardons," Sharpe told The Associated Press. He said he intends to fight for other inmates in desperate need of justice. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Climate activist Greta Thunberg derided the COP26 Climate Summit in Scotland that concluded this weekend, summarizing it as "Blah, blah, blah." 
Her characterization of the meetings as a lot of useless talk mirrored that of other critics – including some who viewed the proceedings from a much different perspective than the 18-year-old Swede.
In the U.S., for example, Republican lawmakers have expressed concerns about possible job losses in the energy industry as negotiators discuss transitions away from fossil fuels.
On Saturday, Biden administration special climate envoy John Kerry described the deal reached by nearly 200 countries as "good," despite language changes requested by India regarding coal power.
Thunberg, meanwhile, warned of "greenwashing" in the days ahead "and media spin to somehow frame the outcome as ‘good’, ‘progress’, ‘hopeful’ or ‘a step in the right direction’."
CLIMATE ACTIVISTS BOYCOTT CLIMATE CONFERENCE OVER VACCINE INEQUALITY, DESPITE WARNINGS OF IMPENDING DOOM
Thunberg tweeted that the "real work continues outside these halls. And we will never give up, ever." 
Alok Sharma, the COP26 president, said the summit achieved the goal of agreeing to cut emissions to limit global warming to 1.5 Celsius, which activists say was not enough. 

      Climate activist Greta Thunberg speaks at a the "Fridays For Future" climate rally during COP26 on Nov. 5, 2021 in Glasgow, Scotland. 
      (Getty Images)
Thunberg said Saturday the Earth will warm by "2,4°C if all govts met the 2030 targets, 2,7°C with current policies. These NDCs are based on flawed and underreported numbers. And this is IF leaders meet their promises, which judging by their track record is not very likely... This is what some seem to celebrate today. #COP26." 
Sharma pointed out in an interview that the word "coal" was in the text for the first time in a global climate conference, according to the Guardian. "Of course I would have preferred the words ‘phase out’ rather than ‘phase down.’ You heard that disappointment on the floor," he said. 
U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said leaders had made "serious breakthroughs" at the conference even as climate activists shared their disappointment with the final agreements. 
On Thursday, Kerry sounded optimistic about the conference and said the "United States looks forward to working with" Egypt and the United Arab Emirates who are who the next two annual conferences "to carry forward the progress of Glasgow and drive further climate action." 
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres tweeted "The #COP26 outcome is a compromise, reflecting the interests, contradictions and state of political will in the world today. It's an important step, but it's not enough. "Our fragile planet is hanging by a thread", he added. "We are still knocking on the door of climate catastrophe."
"I know you might be disappointed," he tweeted specifically to "young people, indigenous communities, women leaders, all those leading on #ClimateAction." "But we're in the fight of our lives & this fight must be won."
Ugandan climate activist Vanessa Nakate accused the conference leaders of not wanting to "pay for the costs they are inflicting on poorer nations" because a Loss and damage fund to help poor countries with the climate crisis wasn’t established. 
"In the final hours, the US, EU and UK stripped the concept of a ‘fund’ out of the COP decision text - watering it down to instead to holding a ‘workshop,’" she tweeted. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
California parents Laura Sextro and Parisa Fishback sent a message to Gov. Gavin Newsom with a statewide sit-out to protest the vaccine mandate for their children.
Former Secretary of Education Arne Duncan took to Twitter Monday to praise Austria’s controversial decision to lock down unvaccinated citizens due to an uptick in COVID-19 cases, raising questions on whether a similar policy could be embraced by other countries.
The Obama administration official retweeted a report on Austria’s nationwide lockdown for those who are unvaccinated and have not recently contracted the virus. 
The Associated Press called the move "the most drastic of a string of measures" by European countries to counter the fourth wave.

      Arne Duncan, now a managing partner at Emerson Collective, was among the advocates speaking at The Kennedy Forum National Summit On Mental Health Equity And Justice In Chicago on Jan. 16, 2018 in Chicago.  (Photo by Jeff Schear/Getty Images for Kennedy Forum)
      
Officials in the country say police patrols and checks will be stepped up and unvaccinated people can be fined up to $1,660 if they violate the lockdown. The lockdown impacts about 2 million Austrians. Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg said his aim is to increase the number of those who take the jab.
CLICK FOR THE LATEST ON THE CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK
Duncan, who is not part of the Biden administration, seemed to approve, posting, "If you (sic) a danger to yourself and others, you must remain at home. If you aren’t, you are free to roam around the country. Austria is onto something…"
The tweet from a former Obama Cabinet member was bound to face swift criticism and raised new questions about the liberties that unvaccinated Americans will have as the virus continues to circulate into the winter months.
FORMER LINCOLN PROJECT ADVISER PANNED FOR MOCKING TRUMP SUPPORTER'S CAR
One commenter posted, "Looks like Arne Duncan’s ideal is for unvaccinated kids & teens to be locked up at home again—despite the cost to mental health, relationships, and learning."
Biden's detractors have already challenged the White House on COVID-19 measures saying they claim run counter to their basic freedoms.
Steve Marshall, Alabama’s attorney general, who filed a lawsuit against part of Biden’s COVID-19 vaccine mandate for businesses told Fox News earlier this month that there is a "slippery slope" when it comes to government overreach. He pointed out that the White House’s position on vaccines just months before the Sept. 9 announcement was that it is "not the role of the federal government to issue these mandates." 
A federal appeals court last week reaffirmed its decision to enact a stay on Biden’s workplace vaccination mandate following legal challenges. The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ordered the U.S. Labor Department’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration to "take no steps to implement or enforce the Mandate until further court order."
Biden’s supporters insist that the president is focused on protecting the health of Americans and the fastest way that the country will reemerge from the COVID-19 epidemic is by wearing masks and getting as many Americans vaccinated against the virus as possible.
About 194 million Americans are fully vaccinated, which is about 58.8% of the population.
The White House and Duncan did not immediately respond to after-hour emails from Fox News.
GET THE FOX NEWS APP
A recent Washington Post-ABC poll found that 47% of Americans now approve of Biden's handling of the outbreak. The paper reported that in June, 62% approved.
Duncan later tweeted, "I look forward to the day when we Americans value the health, safety and well-being of our neighbors at least as much as we value our personal freedom."
Fox Business' Thomas Barrabi and The Associated Press contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
An illegal immigrant pleaded guilty Tuesday to killing two additional people during a two-week rampage in northern Nevada in 2019. 
Wilber Ernesto Martinez Guzman, 22, pleaded guilty to first-degree murder with a deadly weapon in rural Douglas County, in the deaths of Connie Koontz, 56, and Sophia Renken, 74. The two were killed at their homes in Gardnerville.

      FILE: Wilber Ernesto Martinez-Guzman, 19, of El Salvador, is escorted into the courtroom for his initial appearance in Carson City Justice Court in Carson City, Nev. 
      (AP)
He pleaded guilty in Washoe County last month to the same charges in the deaths of Gerald and Sharon David at their southwest Reno home during the same two-week period in January 2019.  
MISSOURI AG, SEEKING TO MAKE BIDEN ADMIN FINISH BUILDING WALL, SAYS BORDER CRISIS ‘COMPLETELY AVOIDABLE’
Authorities said Martinez Guzman stole a .22-caliber handgun from the Davids' home, shot and killed Koontz and Renken in separate attacks, and returned to the Davids' house several days later to rob and kill them.
Gerald David, 81, and his 80-year-old wife had employed Martinez Guzman as a landscaper the summer before.

      This undated photo provided by the Carson City Sheriff's Office in Carson City, Nev., shows suspect Wilbur Martinez-Guzman. 
      (Carson City Sheriff's Office via AP)
Martinez Guzman was arrested in Carson City during a manhunt that had investigators track an Apple watch stolen from Koontz to Martinez Guzman's mother.
Authorities said Martinez Guzman, a Salvadoran national, was in the country illegally, but they didn't say how or when he arrived. At the time, the case drew the attention of President Trump, who said it showed the need for a U.S.-Mexico border wall.  
BARRY MORPHEW MURDER CASE FILE RELEASED; REVEALS SPARRING BETWEEN DEFENSE, PROSECUTORS
Prosecutors initially sought the death penalty but that was dropped as part of a plea agreement. Prosecutors said a factor in that decision was a direct appeal from the victims’ families who didn't want the case to stretch on with the potential for decades of appeals.

      FILE: Wilber Ernesto Martinez-Guzman, of El Salvador, listens to his public defender and interpreter during his initial appearance in Carson City Justice Court, in Carson City, Nev. 
      (AP)
In addition to four consecutive life terms with no possibility of parole, Martinez Guzman faces a minimum of another 214 years in prison for the multiple burglary, larceny, weapons, and possession of stolen property charges under the plea agreement outlined in court documents.
He is expected to plead guilty to several property crimes in Carson City later this month. Washoe County District Judge Connie Steinheimer has scheduled sentencing for the Reno crimes for Feb. 28.
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt argues the Biden administration’s vaccine mandate is ‘unconstitutional.’
A St. Louis-area suspected serial killer has been charged in two murders and could be tied to four homicides and two shootings across two states, authorities said Monday. 
Perez Deshay Reed, 25, of Bellefontaine Neighbors, was charged Saturday with two counts of first-degree murder, three counts of armed criminal action, and one count of first-degree assault. He is believed to have killed 16-year-old Marnay Haynes on Sept. 13 and 40-year-old Lester Robinson on Sept. 26. 
Reed has denied hurting anyone, according to court documents. 
JOSH HAWLEY BLASTS ‘COLLUSION’ BETWEEN NATIONAL SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION AND BIDEN ADMIN

      This undated photo provided by St. Louis County Justice Services shows Perez Reed, who was charged Saturday in the shooting deaths of 16-year-old Marnay Haynes on Sept. 13 and 40-year-old Lester Robinson on Sept. 26. Police are trying to determine if he was involved in at least four other homicides in Missouri and Kansas. (St. Louis County Justice Services via AP)
      
"The cases in the City of St. Louis are currently under investigation to ensure the most important goal – that justice is brought to the many victims and their families; and the person responsible is held accountable for these heinous crimes," St. Louis Circuit Attorney Kim Gardner said in a statement. 
Police are investigating whether or not Reed killed Damon Irvin, 35, and Daja Fairrow, 25, whose bodies were found earlier this month in an apartment complex in Kansas City, Kansas. Charges have not been filed in those killings. 
Meanwhile, St. Louis city police said Monday that they plan to seek charges against Reed in the recent shooting deaths of 49-year-old Pamela Abercrombie and 24-year-old Casey Ross.
The killer's motive remains unknown but most of the victims were women, authorities said in court documents. Investigators do not believe the victims knew each other or their assailant. Within days of the shootings, authorities issued an alert warning that a gunman was targeting sex workers.
EX-SPECIAL AGENT JOHN DOUGLAS DECODES MOST PROLIFIC SERIAL KILLERS IN TRUE CRIME ANTHOLOGY ‘KILLER NEXT DOOR’
"These seem to be random acts," St. Louis County Police Lt. Craig Longworth said. "Why? I can't give an answer to that."

      Authorities talk to reporters on Monday about charges filed against Perez Reed in St. Louis. 
      (St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department )
The FBI arrested Reed over the weekend while he was traveling from Kansas City, Kansas, to St. Louis. He was in possession of a .40-Caliber handgun that matched shell casings found at the scene of at least three of the killings, the FBI said. 
The weapon also matched casings found at the scene of several murders in St. Louis, investigators said. 
"We got a violent offender off of the streets and without the cooperation that would not have gotten done," said St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Wesley Bell during a news conference. 
The case began to come together when authorities in Kansas City contacted their St. Louis counterparts after the two murders in their jurisdiction and they passed off information on Reed, whom they suspected of being involved, authorities said. 

      A St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department vehicle. 
      (St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department )
The FBI said that on Friday, officers were watching Reed when he got on an Amtrak train from Kansas City bound for St. Louis. He got off at the first stop, in Independence, and was getting on a bus when he was taken into custody.
Authorities declined to label Reed a possible serial killer but the FBI defines serial murder as the unlawful killing of two or more victims by the same offender in separate events. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
California is among three U.S. states now allowing coronavirus booster shots for all adults even though federal health officials recommend limiting doses to those considered most at risk.
The nation's most populous state, along with Colorado and New Mexico, instituted their policies to try to head off a feared surge around the end-of-year holidays when more people are gathering inside.
Colorado and New Mexico have among the nation's highest rates of new infections, while California — lowest in the nation earlier this fall — now joins them in the "high" tier for transmission, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

      Colorado Gov. Jared Polis speaks during a news conference about Colorado offering coronavirus vaccinations to children, Thursday, Oct. 28, 2021, in Denver. Infection rates have soared in Colorado over the past month, and Polis signed an executive order on Thursday, Nov. 11, 2021, to expand the use of booster shots to quell the recent surge in COVID-19 infections. (AP Photo/David Zalubowski, File)
      (AP Photo/David Zalubowski, File)
GREG GUTFIELD: WAR NEEDS AN ENDING OR IT WON'T END
New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham signed an executive order Friday expanding eligibility for COVID-19 booster shots. Her state health department's acting secretary, Dr. David Scrase, said rising case numbers have some hospitals in New Mexico overwhelmed.
"COVID-19 is incredibly opportunistic and it’s our job to ensure that the virus has fewer and fewer opportunities to spread," Scrase said. "If it’s time for you to get a booster, please do so right away."
President Joe Biden’s administration had sought approval for boosters for all adults, but U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisers in September decided it isn’t clear that young healthy people need another dose. They instead recommended boosters only for those over 65 and younger people with certain underlying health conditions or whose jobs are high risk for the virus.
In California, state Public Health Officer Tomás Aragón sent a letter to local health officials and providers saying they should "allow patients to self-determine their risk of exposure."

      Nurse Mary Ezzat prepares to administer a Pfizer COVID-19 booster shot to Jessica M., Thursday, Aug. 19, 2021, at UCI Medical Center in Orange, Calif. Jessica M. is a healthcare worker who is also immunocompromised. California Gov. Gavin Newsom, along with Colorado Gov. Jared Polis and New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham have taken steps to expand the use of booster shots to quell the recent surge in COVID-19 infections. (Jeff Gritchen/The Orange County Register via AP)
      (Jeff Gritchen/The Orange County Register via AP)
AUSTRIAN BROTHEL OFFERING FREE ENTRY, PRIVATE SESSION FOR THOSE WHO GET VACCIINATED ON-SITE
"Do not turn a patient away who is requesting a booster" if they are age 18 and up and it has been six months since they had their second Moderna or Pfizer vaccine or two months since their single Johnson & Johnson shot, he wrote.
He told pharmacies to prioritize boosters to those in skilled nursing or assisted living facilities due to waning immunity from the earlier shots. But generally, providers "should not miss any opportunity" to give vaccines to the unvaccinated or boosters to everyone else anytime they visit a drug store, hospital or medical office.
Many states are now experiencing rising cases and more hospitalizations. Nationwide in the last week there were about 73,000 new cases daily, roughly 10,000 more than three weeks ago.
In Colorado, where some hospitals are stretched to the breaking point, Gov. Jared Polis signed an executive order on Thursday to expand use of booster shots. A day later he had a dire warning for the roughly 20% of eligible people in his state who have yet to get a single dose.
"We wouldn’t even be here talking about this if everyone was vaccinated," the Democratic governor said at a news conference. "If you are not vaccinated, you’re going to get COVID. Maybe this year, maybe next year."

      California Gov. Gavin Newsom, left, receives a Moderna COVID-19 vaccine booster shot from California Health and Human Services Secretary Dr. Mark Ghaly at Asian Health Services in Oakland, Calif., Wednesday, Oct. 27, 2021. In a letter to health providers dated Tuesday, Nov. 9. 2021, Dr. Tomas Aragon, the State Public Health Officer, told providers they should "not turn a patient away who requesting a booster" if they are age 18 and up and it has been six months since they had their second Moderna or Pfizer vaccine or two months since their single Johnson &amp; Johnson shot. (AP Photo/Jeff Chiu, File)
      (AP Photo/Jeff Chiu, File)
AUSTRIA SET TO IMPOSE NATIONWIDE LOCKDOWN FOR UNVACCINATED
Officials in Colorado, California and New Mexico said they have ample supplies of vaccines to provide initial vaccinations and boosters to all who want them.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Friday said the Biden administration continues to advise health leaders across the country "to abide by public health guidelines coming from the federal government."
California Health and Human Services Secretary Dr. Mark Ghaly earlier in the week said California's decision doesn't conflict with federal guidelines. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was "very clear that they had two categories — groups that should get a booster and groups that may." he said.
"We know that a number of Californians work in crowded public settings," Ghaly said. "Because of your work-related risk or even you live with people who have underlying conditions (and) are at higher risk themselves, or you’re a member of a community that’s been ravished and hard-hit by COVID ... it’s permissive by the CDC and the FDA to go ahead and get the booster."
Dr. Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo, a professor of epidemiology at University of California, San Francisco, said boosters have lagged. That's worrisome as winter approaches and the highly contagious delta variant, which caused a summer spike, continues to circulate.
The delta variant is "really good at finding people, including people who got vaccinated at the beginning of the year and now that vaccination is wearing off a little bit," she said. "Delta is a powerful force and everybody needs that third dose."
Stay up-to-date on the biggest health and wellness news with our weekly recap.
Subscribed
Nicholas Sandmann supports Kyle Rittenhouse suing to 'hold the media accountable' in a new op-ed. Fox Nation Patriot Awards host Pete Hegseth reacts and previews the show.
Former Covington Catholic High School student Nicholas Sandmann – who famously settled a defamation suit against CNN – thinks Kyle Rittenhouse should sue news outlets to "hold the media accountable" after liberal pundits rushed to judgment on his case. 
"The parallels between me and Kyle Rittenhouse are impossible not to draw," Sandmann wrote in a column for the Daily Mail in which he directly reached out to lend support. "The way the media has treated you is terrible, and you don't have to face it alone."

      Nicholas Sandmann thinks Kyle Rittenhouse should sue news outlets if he’s found innocent to "hold the media accountable" after liberal pundits rushed to judgment following the shooting death of two people in Kenosha last year. 
      (AP)
RITTENHOUSE TRIAL: JURORS RESUME DELIBERATIONS: LIVE UPDATESRittenhouse, an Illinois man on trial for intentional homicide and other charges in the shooting deaths of two people during chaotic August 2020 demonstrations in Kenosha, Wisconsin, was quickly labeled a "White supremacist" by liberal pundits at the height of protests sparked by the police shooting of Jacob Blake. Rittenhouse says he acted in self-defense and a jury is currently deliberating to decide his fate. 
"Kyle was almost immediately labeled a 'white supremacist' and a 'domestic terrorist.’ To many, my red MAGA hat clearly meant that I was a racist," Sandmann continued. "Kyle wasn't given his day in court by his critics. And neither was I. The attacks on Kyle came from the national news media, just as they came for me. They came quickly, without hesitation, because Kyle was an easy target that they could paint in the way they wanted to."
In January 2020, CNN settled a multimillion-dollar defamation lawsuit filed by Sandmann – who became known as the "Covington kid" – over the liberal network’s botched coverage of a viral confrontation with a Native American elder that had portrayed the Kentucky teen as the aggressor.
JESSE WATTERS ON KYLE RITTENHOUSE TRIAL PROSECUTION AND LIBERAL MEDIA REACTION: 'THEY WANT TO SCALP THIS KID'

      In January 2020, CNN settled a multimillion-dollar defamation lawsuit filed by Nick Sandmann over the liberal network’s botched coverage of a viral confrontation with a Native American elder that had portrayed the Kentucky teen as the aggressor.
      
CNN SETTLES NICK SANDMANN DEFAMATION LAWSUIT IN COVINGTON CATHOLIC HIGH SCHOOL CONTROVERSYThe $250 million defamation suit sought damages for the "emotional distress Nicholas and his family suffered" in the fallout of the network's reporting. The settlement amount was not disclosed. 
Sandmann was swept up in the 2019 controversy after a video clip depicted the "MAGA" hat-wearing student smiling at Nathan Phillips beating a drum and singing a chant as he was surrounded by Sandmann's peers, who all had joined in on the chant in front of the steps of the Lincoln Memorial.
However, several mainstream media outlets, including CNN, portrayed the incident with Sandmann and the other teens as being racially charged before it was discovered by additional footage that a group of Black Hebrew Israelites had provoked the confrontation. The radical group threw racial slurs at the students as they were waiting for their bus following a March For Life event in Washington, D.C. 
Footage then showed Phillips, who was in town for the Indigenous Peoples March, approaching the students amid the rising tension between the two groups.
Sandmann believes Rittenhouse went through similar agony as the liberal media rushed to judgment. 
"This is the problem with liberal media outlets in the United States. They want to get the story first, get the most views, make the most money, and advance the agenda from liberal patrons," he wrote. "These outlets cover themselves when they are wrong with small footnotes at the ends of long articles, clarifying that new information has come out and that they have updated their coverage. News shouldn't be a scoreboard that constantly changes. News is about coverage that includes a statement of facts that does not need to be corrected. But, the liberal media doesn't do this. The liberal media rushes to be the first to report." 
LIBERAL PUNDITS, TWITTER TROLLS LABEL KYLE RITTENHOUSE A ‘WHITE SUPREMACIST’
Sandmann wrote, "In our hyperpolarized society, the first impression of Kyle has been set in stone, probably for the rest of his life," specifically calling out President Biden, LeBron James and Rep. Ayana Pressley, D-Mass., in addition to countless liberal pundits. 
A guest on MSNBC compared him to a "school shooter," while another said he is "arguably a domestic terrorist." MSNBC’s Joy Reid referred to him as a "vigilante," and Rep. Gwen Moore, D-Wis., used the "White supremacist" term when talking about Rittenhouse during an appearance on CNN in March. 
"With Kyle's name dragged through the mud, and the clear effect it is having on him, many have started to ask the question whether Kyle should sue for defamation. While I am by no means an attorney, I have gained some experience on the ins and outs of defamation and can offer an educated guess on what the outcome would be if Kyle were to sue," Sandmann wrote, explaining how difficult defamation cases are to win. 

      Kyle Rittenhouse pulls numbers of jurors out of a tumbler during his trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse. (Photo by Sean Krajacic-Pool/Getty Images)
      
"Should Kyle sue? It first depends on what happens in the trial, as those elements would come into play were he found guilty. However, if Kyle is innocent it would create an easier road to winning," Sandmann wrote. "If Kyle is prepared to take on another burden in his early life, with the acceptance that it might result in nothing, I answer, give it a shot and hold the media accountable."
Sandmann believes that "one of the saddening parts of this media onslaught is that it has taken young people like Kyle and myself to expose how corrupt the media really is," and, as a result, he couldn’t wait for a verdict before weighing in. 
"I cannot hold back on the media's public execution of him before the trial has concluded," Sandmann wrote. "At this time I would like to use my platform to let Kyle know that I am here for you and if you ever would like to reach out to me, I am about the only person our age to have an idea of how the media is treating you. The way the media has treated you is terrible, and you don't have to face it alone."
Fox News’ Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed this this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Gordon Chang, author of The Coming Collapse of China, says China believes it can push the U.S. around because of 'incoherence' within the Biden administration. 
China’s President Xi Jinping referred to President Biden as his "old friend" ahead of a highly anticipated virtual summit meeting Monday evening that did not produce any major breakthroughs.
Xi’s choice of words to describe his relationship with Biden contradicted the way both the president and White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki have characterized their relationship. Biden has touted his rapport with Xi as an advantage during increasingly fraught diplomatic dealings between the US and China, even as he has disputed the idea they are friends.
"It’s the first time for us to meet virtually. Although it’s not as good as a face-to-face meeting, I’m very happy to see my old friend," Xi said through a translator at the start of the meeting.

      President Joe Biden listens as he meets virtually with Chinese President Xi Jinping from the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington, Monday, Nov. 15, 2021. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)
      
Biden has claimed on multiple occasions to have "traveled 17,000 miles" with Xi during his time as vice president in the Obama administration. But the president bristled during a June press conference when Fox News’ Peter Doocy asked if Biden would call Xi "old friend to old friend" to demand China’s cooperation with efforts to investigate the origins of COVID-19.
"Let’s get something straight: we know each other well, we’re not old friends," Biden said. "It’s just pure business."
Psaki reiterated that assertion just hours before the meeting, telling reporters during her daily press briefing that Biden "still does not consider him an old friend."

      President Joe Biden, left, speaks as he meets virtually with Chinese President Xi Jinping, on screen, from the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington, Monday, Nov. 15, 2021. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, center, and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, right, also participated in the meeting. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)
      
The White House set low expectations for the meeting, and no major announcements or even a joint statement were delivered. Still, White House officials said the two leaders had a substantive exchange.
Both Biden and Xi spoke of clear communication as the key to long-term diplomatic relations.
"Right now, both China and the United States are at critical stages of development, and humanity lives in a global village, and we face multiple challenges together," Xi said.
Biden called for the establishment of "common sense guardrails" to prevent disputes from escalating to conflict and for collaboration on climate change and other "vital global issues." 

      Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, addresses a central conference on work related to people's congresses, held from Oct. 13 to Oct. 14 in Beijing, capital of China. (Photo by Wang Ye/Xinhua via Getty Images)
      (Wang Ye/Xinhua via Getty Images)
"All countries need to play by the same rules of the road. It’s why the United States is always going to stand up for our interests and values and those of our allies and partners. If past is prologue, I’m sure that today we’ll be discussing those areas where we have concerns, from human rights to economics to ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific," Biden said.
Republicans have accused the Biden administration of failing to hold Beijing accountable on human rights for the sake of pursuing its climate agenda.
"As he turns a blind eye to human rights atrocities to pursue his political agenda, Biden has allowed China to threaten American security and our allies’ sovereignty, while undermining the advancement of freedom across the globe," the Republican National Committee said in a statement shortly before the start of the leaders’ meeting.
Attendees of the summit meeting included members of Biden’s Cabinet, including Secretary of State Tony Blinken and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, as well as Xi’s closest government advisers. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm laughed at a news anchor's question about reining in oil prices, 'Hannity' host reacts
In his Opening Monologue on Friday, Sean Hannity called out Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm for heartily laughing in the faces of Americans who are struggling to pay increased gasoline and heating oil bills as Winter approaches.
Granholm, a former Democratic Michigan governor appointed by President Joe Biden, interrupted a BloombergTV anchor's question about energy with a loud guffaw:
"What is the Granholm plan to increase oil production in America," asked host Thomas Keene.
Before he could finish his question, the Michigander closed her eyes and began laughing before leaning backward in her chair with a smile:
"Oh my, that is hilarious," she replied, before going on to blame "the OPEC cartel" for what have been repeated denials of Biden's requests to increase oil production in the Middle East.

      U.S. President Joe Biden shakes hands White House Chief of Staff Ronald Klain as Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm looks on as he arrives for a meeting with cabinet officials, governors, and private sector partners at the White House in Washington, U.S. June 30, 2021. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque
      
"Oil is a global market, it is controlled by a cartel – that cartel is called OPEC," Granholm claimed.
Hannity went on to dispute the secretary's assertion, noting that until President Biden reversed Donald Trump's energy policies including cancelling the Keystone XL pipeline on January 20, the U.S. does not have to be at the whim of Mideast oil barons.
"What is funny about that? We were energy independent. Instead of begging OPEC and getting rejected for the ninth time, we can produce more oil, more gas right here in America," Hannity replied. "It creates high paying career jobs in the energy sector. It reduces shipping costs."

      An oil pumpjack operates in the drive-thru area of a McDonald's in Bradford, Pennsylvania, U.S. October 6, 2017. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid
      
States like Alaska, North Dakota, Texas, New York, Pennsylvania and West Virginia are rich in oil, natural gas and/or coal depending on the region. 
The United States has essentially produced its own fuels in varying capacities since prospector Edwin Drake first struck black gold in Venango County, Pa., in 1859.

      Chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Joe Manchin (D-WV) speaks with Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) during a hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., July 27, 2021. REUTERS/Joshua Roberts
      
Hannity later noted that the fact Appalachian states like Pennsylvania and West Virginia have such high capacity for exploration and rely on the industry for a good portion of their jobs itself also is playing a big role in the congressional stalemate over Biden's "socialist" Build Back Better plan.
The host later played video of Sen. Joe Manchin III, D-W.V., being accosted by protesters who followed him into a parking deck and blocked his car from exiting. Another clip showed the Mountain State lawmaker being further harassed by protesters as he walked down an urban sidewalk. 
Earlier this year, Manchin appeared on the stern of his houseboat "Almost Heaven" to engage cordially with protesters who had kayaked out into the Potomac River in the District of Columbia to demand action on the spending package.
Hannity said West Virginia relies on the energy industry, and that Manchin is looking out for the interests of his constituents by further contemplating support for the package.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
PALM BEACH, Fla. – EXCLUSIVE: Former President Donald Trump said Democrats put him "on the ballot" in Virginia, saying they "played it wrong." Trump also touted GOP Governor-elect Glenn Youngkin as a "very good candidate."
In an exclusive interview with Fox News, the former president said that Youngkin’s upset win in Virginia’s gubernatorial election this week over Democratic challenger Terry McAuliffe was in part due to Trump's endorsement.
YOUNGKIN VICTORY DEALS ANOTHER BLOW TO BIDEN, AS AGENDA STALLS IN CONGRESS
"If you look at what happened in Virginia, it’s very interesting. They used my name — the Democrats — so much that they ended up losing," Trump told Fox News. "One of the reasons [McAuliffe] lost is because he kept saying Trump, Trump, Trump.
"And the greatest base in the history of politics came out at a level that they never would have if he wasn’t so foolish — and I’m using a nice word — foolish," Trump continued. "He was a terrible candidate on the Democrat side, and Glenn was a very good candidate and a gracious candidate." 
Trump told Fox News that Youngkin called him the morning after the election and "really thanked me because he understood the importance of what we did."
"So, it helped him a lot with the nomination, and it helped him a lot with the win," Trump said, referring to his endorsement of Youngkin. "And the Democrats played it wrong because they went after Trump.
"They put me on the ballot. The Democrats put me on the ballot." 
Trump pointed to the final weeks of Virginia’s gubernatorial race, with McAuliffe campaigning with former President Barack Obama, Vice President Kamala Harris, President Biden and more.
GOP SEES YOUNGKIN'S VIRGINIA VICTORY AS A BLUEPRINT TO WIN BACK CONGRESS IN 2022
"They brought in everybody they could bring in," Trump said. "It was a great victory in a state that, I happen to think, is much more red than they think, OK? I don’t really see that as a fully blue state." 
In response to Obama’s appearance on the campaign trail, Trump said Virginians "don’t have time to be wasting on these phony, trumped-up culture wars."
"This fake outrage that right-wing media pedals to juice their ratings, and the fact that he's willing to go along with it instead of talking about serious problems that actually affect serious people? That's a shame," Obama said. "That's not what this election's about. That's not what you need, Virginia."

      Former President Obama campaigns with Democratic gubernatorial candidate Terry McAuliffe at Virginia Commonwealth University Oct. 23, 2021 in Richmond, Va. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
      
When asked about Obama’s remarks Friday, Trump said: "Well, I think they’re phony comments."
"When you hear that, look, they did very, very badly in Virginia. They did very, very badly, frankly, in New Jersey. It is an incredible thing to see," Trump added. "But what happened in Virginia was quite unthinkable." 
Trump said he thought Republicans "gave up" Virginia "long before they should have."
OPINION: NEWT GINGRICH: SIX KEY LESSONS FOR REPUBLICANS FROM THE 2021 ELECTIONS
"The people of Virginia are angry, and the reason we won that state — number one — we had a good candidate and a nice guy and somebody who was really, very gracious," Trump said. "But you also had the MAGA voters come out in force because they’re tired of it, and they voted, and they made the difference."

      Virginia Governor-elect Glenn Youngkin tosses a signed basketball to supporters at an election-night party in Chantilly, Va., early Wednesday, Nov. 3, 2021, after he defeated Democrat Terry McAuliffe. 
      (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
Trump's comments come after Youngkin secured a victory in traditionally blue Virginia, a state Biden won by 10 points in 2020. 
Republicans Winsome Sears and Jason Miyares also declared victory in Virginia in the lieutenant governor and attorney general races, respectively. The GOP had not won a statewide election since 2009.
In New Jersey, Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy narrowly edged Republican challenger Jack Ciattarelli. Biden won the state of New Jersey by 16 points in 2020.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
White House press secretary Jen Psaki says President Biden doesn't spend time thinking about 'Let's Go Brandon' chants, a code for profanity against the president that's become popular with his detractors.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki claimed President Biden doesn’t "spend much time focused" on the anti-Biden rallying cry "Let’s Go Brandon."
NBC News White House correspondent Peter Alexander asked Psaki during Friday’s press briefing about the phrase that became an online sensation last month. It started when an NBC reporter at a NASCAR Xfinity Series race incorrectly reported that fans in the stands were chanting "Let’s Go Brandon" following a victory by driver Brandon Brown, when they were really shouting, "F--k Joe Biden!"
ANTI-BIDEN RALLYING CRY 'LETS GO BRANDON' CAUSES MAINSTREAM MEDIA MELTDOWN

      White House press secretary Jen Psaki claimed President Biden doesn’t "spend much time focused" on the anti-Biden rallying cry.
      
Memes, jokes, and comments immediately began to spread across the internet posted by users mocking NBC’s coverage during the interview. The "F--k Joe Biden!" chants, which began at some large sporting events across the country as the president’s poll numbers sagged, have now been replaced in some venues with the cheeky "Let’s Go Brandon!"
"Across this country we’ve seen this new phenomenon lately, chanted at sporting events and on signs, the phrase is ‘Let’s Go Brandon,’ a sort of code for a profane slogan attacking President Biden," Alexander said. "What does the president make of that?"
"I don’t think he spends much time focused on it or thinking about it," Psaki answered while smirking. 

      Liberal media members have been furious over the "Let’s Go Brandon" chant.  (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
MEDIA COMPARE PILOT WHO REPORTEDLY TOLD PASSENGERS, 'LET'S GO BRANDON' TO A DRUG ABUSER, ISIS SYMPATHIZER 
Alexander then followed up, "The president said when he came into office on Inauguration Day… he was going to help get rid of the uncivil war in this country. So I guess through that lens right now, does the president think there are things he can do differently, or how does he react this this stuff … when it is one of his primary promises?"
Psaki said "it takes two to move toward a more civil discourse" and insisted Biden wants to "govern for all Americans."
The popularity of "Let’s Go Brandon" has infuriated the left, resulting in an onslaught of angry tweets, columns and hot takes from liberal pundits. One CNN analyst, after a claim that an airline pilot used the phrase to address passengers, compared it to saying "Long Live ISIS."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki defended Vice President Kamala Harris' position in the Biden administration on Sunday amid her sinking poll numbers.
"For anyone who needs to hear it. @VP is not only a vital partner to @POTUS but a bold leader who has taken on key, important challenges facing the country—from voting rights to addressing root causes of migration to expanding broadband," Psaki tweeted.
Psaki's tweet comes after Harris' office appeared to respond to a CNN article on Sunday that suggested "dysfunction" within the vice president's team.
Symone Sanders, who serves as senior adviser and chief spokesperson for Harris, wrote, "It is unfortunate that after a productive trip to France in which we reaffirmed our relationship with America's oldest ally and demonstrated U.S. leadership on the world stage, and following passage of a historic, bipartisan infrastructure bill that will create jobs and strengthen our communities, some in the media are focused on gossip — not on the results that the President and Vice President have delivered."
Shortly afterward, Deputy Press Secretary Sabrina Singh tweeted, "Honored to work for @VP every day. She’s focused on the #BuildBackBetter agenda and delivering results for the American people."
"Proud to be on team @VP every single day," Assistant Press Secretary Rachel Palermo wrote.
CNN reporters Edward-Isaac Dovere and Jasmine Wright published an article titled "Exasperation and dysfunction: Inside Kamala Harris' frustrating start as vice president." The article highlights repeated conflicts between Harris, her staff and the White House.
"But, with many sources speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the situation more frankly, they all tell roughly the same story: Harris' staff has repeatedly failed her and left her exposed, and family members have often had an informal say within her office. Even some who have been asked for advice lament Harris' overly cautious tendencies and staff problems, which have been a feature of every office she's held, from San Francisco district attorney to U.S. Senate," the reporters wrote.
Harris was recently panned for her overseas trip to France after visiting a COVID-19 lab in Paris where she apparently used a French accent. A recent poll showed Harris' approval rating below Biden's with a 28% approval rating among Americans.
Fox News' Lindsay Kornick contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Former Gorsuch law clerk Mike Davis and former U.S. attorney Harry Litman weigh in on the legality on 'Fox News @ Night' 
President Biden on Friday said the situation on the border between Belarus and Poland is of "great concern" -- as a growing number of migrants is leading to increased tensions in the region, and accusations that Belarus and Moscow are manufacturing a crisis.
"I think it’s of great concern," Biden told reporters. "We’ve communicated our concern to Russia, we’ve communicated our concern to Belarus. We think it’s a problem."
EU FACES DOWN FRESH CRISIS AT ITS BORDERS, AS OFFICIALS ACCUSE BELARUS OF WEAPONIZING MIGRANT SURGE

      Migrants walk along the barbed wire as they gather at the Belarus-Poland border near Grodno, Belarus, Friday, Nov. 12, 2021.  (Leonid Shcheglov/BelTA pool photo via AP)
      
Biden spoke amid a rapidly escalating crisis in Europe, where thousands of migrants from the Middle East have gathered at the border between Poland and Belarus. Polish and European Union officials have accused Minsk of funneling migrants to the border to create a crisis in response to sanctions against Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko for his crackdown against dissent and an allegedly stolen 2020 election.
Poland has sent troops to its border and declared a state of emergency. Camps have set up at the border, along with the borders of Latvia and Lithuania, amid reports that there are tens of thousands more migrants on their way.
The New York Times reports that Belarus not only loosened visa rules for travel from Iraq, from where a significant number of the migrants have arrived, but also increased state-owned airline flights and have even given migrants directions, wire cutters and axes to get through border fencing.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen met with President Biden at the White House this week and described a "hybrid attack" and a "cynical geopolitical powerplay."
"This is not a bilateral issue of Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Belarus," von der Leyen told reporters. "This is a challenge to the whole of the European Union. And this is not a migration crisis. This is the attempt of an authoritarian regime to try to destabilize its democratic neighbors. This will not succeed."
BELARUS MARKS YEAR SINCE DISPUTED ELECTIONS UNDER LUKASHENKO, ‘EUROPE’S LAST DICTATOR'
Meanwhile, experts have suspected coordination from Moscow as part of a strategy to increase tensions in the region and distract from Russian activities near Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin’s government has sent nuclear-capable strategic bombers on training missions over Belarus on Thursday in a show of support.
"These are manufactured events through strategic manipulation over a long period of time to create the conditions in which opportunities to make it even more unstable arise," Michael Ryan, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for European and NATO Policy, told Fox News this week. "And some of the tools have proven to be very effective because they do create such an emotional response in Europe — migration being one of them."

      Belarusian servicemen control the situation while migrants get humanitarian aid as they gather at the Belarus-Poland border near Grodno, Belarus, Friday, Nov. 12, 2021.  (Ramil Nasibulin/BelTA pool photo via AP)
      
Putin has specifically denied Russian involvement in the crisis at the Belarus-Poland border.
"I want everyone to know that we have nothing to do with it. Everyone is trying to impose any responsibility on us for any reason and for no reason at all," Putin said in excerpts released Saturday of an interview with state television.
Migration has been a sensitive topic in Europe since the 2015 Syrian migrant crisis, which saw masses of migrants flood into Europe -- creating political upheavals in a number of countries. So far, however, the crisis only appears to be uniting European leaders rather than dividing them, with E.U. officials visited Warsaw this week to express solidarity with Poland.
Meanwhile The Associated Press reported that Turkey has stopped selling airline tickets to Syrian, Iraqi and Yemeni nationals trying to get to Belarus after EU officials have pressured airlines to stop facilitating the travel.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here.
The "Saturday Night Live" cold open this weekend tackled Sen. Ted Cruz’s criticism of Big Bird for encouraging kids to get the coronavirus vaccine on Twitter after the "Sesame Street" characters participated in an informational town hall. 
"Ted Cruz Street," as it was dubbed by "SNL," featured cast member Aidy Bryant as the Texas Republican, joined by a guest list that included U.S. Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (Cecily Strong) with an AR-15 rifle, welfare cheat "Oscar the Slouch" (Chris Redd) and a very sick post-vaccine Big Bird (Kyle Mooney), whom the Cruz character advised to bathe in Borax. (Some social media users have suggested bathing in Borax after getting the COVID shot as a detox but the Food and Drug Administration has advised it is a potentially harmful skin and eye irritant.)
CONSERVATIVES TAKE ON BIG BIRD OVER COVID VACCINE, LATEST IN YEARSLONG TUSSLE
Bryant's Cruz said he had stood idly by for years while "Sesame Street" taught kids "dangerous ideas like numbers and kindness. But when Big Bird told kids to get vaccinated against a deadly disease I said, ‘Enough!’" 
He described "Cruz Street" as a gated community where kids would be safe from the "woke" government. And to the tune of the "Sesame Street" theme song, Cruz and a group of kids sang that they would "sweep the libs away" and "grab an eagle and a gun" and "bring the gun to Cruz Street."
Cruz explained he was mocked for calling Big Bird’s tweet "propaganda" last week "simply because I am a human senator and he is an eight-foot-tall fictional bird." 
Strong's Greene came on and explained that today’s episode of "Ted Cruz Street" was "brought to you by ‘Q’ – the man, not the letter." Every episode of the actual "Sesame Street" is "sponsored" by a letter of the alphabet that features thematically in the show.
Bryant's Cruz later mentioned what he said were three more important letters – C, R and T. He explained that while they stood for "critical race theory," he believed they more accurately meant "Caucasian rights trampled." 
Joe Rogan (Pete Davidson) also made an appearance, proclaiming he "used to host ‘Fear Factor’ and now doctors fear me." 
Later, Cruz raised the topic of the Democrats' social safety-net bill.
"Did somebody say free money?" Oscar the Slouch said, rising from inside his trash-can home.
Oscar told Cruz that "Papa Joe Biden gave me so many stimulus I decided to quit working and live in this trash can. Now you all work hard and Biden gives me your money." He added that he proudly uses "your tax money on drugs and pornography." 
At the end of the sketch, Cruz said the word of the day was "freedom" and Britney Spears (Chloe Fineman) came on to celebrate her emancipation from her conservancy – and to tell the audience "Live from New York, it’s Saturday Night!" 
Actor Jonathan Majors was the show's guest host with Taylor Swift as the musical guest. Swift notably performed "All Too Well," a 10-minute-long song re-recorded for her new album "Red" that is widely speculated to be about her ex Jake Gyllenhaal. Swift is known for writing unflattering songs about her ex-boyfriends. 
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
More than a year and a half after COVID-19 concerns prompted the U.S. to close its borders to international travelers from countries including Brazil, China, India, South Africa, the United Kingdom and much of Europe, restrictions are shifting to focus on vaccine status. 
Beginning Monday, bans on travel from specific countries are over. The U.S. will allow in international travelers, but they must be vaccinated — with a few exceptions. 
The U.S. is also reopening the land borders with Canada and Mexico for vaccinated people. Most trips from Canada and Mexico to the U.S. are by land rather than air. 
BIDEN ADMIN KICKS OFF ‘NATIONWIDE EFFORT’ TO GET CHILDREN VACCINATED AGAINST COVID-19 

      A passenger looks at a departures board at London Heathrow Airport's T3 as the US reopens its borders to UK visitors in a significant boost to the travel sector in London on Monday.
      (Anthony Upton/PA via AP)
Here are some questions and answers about the changes: 
WHY ARE THESE CHANGES HAPPENING? 
The goal is to restore more normal travel while limiting the spread of COVID-19, the government says. The travel industry and European allies have pushed for an end to country-specific bans. Americans have been allowed to fly to Europe for months, and Europeans have been pushing the U.S. to change its policies. 
In 2019, before the pandemic, about one-fifth of the roughly 79 million visitors to the U.S. came from Europe. 
WHAT ARE THE MAIN REQUIREMENTS? 
All adult foreign nationals traveling to the U.S. must be fully vaccinated before boarding their flight. Like before, travelers will still have to show proof of a negative COVID-19 test taken within 72 hours of departure to the U.S. 
EVERYONE NEEDS TO BE VACCINATED? 
Yes, with some exceptions. Children under 18 don't need to be vaccinated but they do need to take a COVID test. Kids 2 and younger are exempt from testing requirements. 
WHAT ABOUT ADULTS WHO AREN'T VACCINATED? 
Since half the world remains unvaccinated, and vaccine distribution has been so skewed to rich countries, the Biden administration is leaving a loophole for people who live in countries where vaccines are scarce. That list includes about 50 countries where fewer than 10% of people have been vaccinated. Travelers from those countries will need permission from the U.S. government to come, and it can't be just for tourism or business travel. 
The U.S. government says it will permit unvaccinated international visitors to enter the country if there is a humanitarian or emergency reason, such as an emergency medical evacuation. Those exceptions will be applied "extremely narrowly" and require approval from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. There could also be a medical exception, with documentation from a doctor. 
WHAT WILL AMERICANS HAVE TO DO? 
Americans who are unvaccinated have to show proof of a negative COVID-19 test within one day of international travel. If you're vaccinated, you need to take a test within three days of your departure, for both Americans and citizens of other countries. This does not apply to flights within the U.S. 

      Passengers queue at London Heathrow Airport's T3 as the US reopens its borders to UK visitors in a significant boost to the travel sector in London on Monday.
      (Steve Parsons/PA via AP)
WHO IS GOING TO ENFORCE THE VACCINE RULES? 
That's up to airlines. They will have to verify vaccine records and match them against ID, and if they don't, they could face fines of up to nearly $35,000 per violation. Airlines will also collect information about passengers for contact tracing efforts. There will be CDC workers spot-checking travelers for compliance in the U.S. 
WHICH VACCINES WILL LET YOU IN? 
Most but not all of them. Any COVID-19 vaccine approved for emergency use by the World Health Organization, which includes the Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines used in the U.S. as well as most used overseas, such as AstraZeneca and China's Sinovac. Not currently allowed is Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, which is authorized in 70 countries. The WHO is reviewing Sputnik but hasn't approved it. 
WHAT IF YOU DRIVE IN FROM MEXICO OR CANADA, OR TAKE A FERRY? 
The land borders have only been open for "essential" travel. Now, anyone can come, if they're vaccinated against COVID. Be prepared to show proof of the shot to Customs and Border Protection agents. Children are exempt from the requirement. 
HOW WILL THIS AFFECT TRAVEL? 
While the administration is characterizing this as a reopening, some people who were technically allowed to fly to the U.S. earlier in the pandemic are now blocked because of their vaccination status. Other roadblocks to normal travel resuming are big delays in issuing U.S. visas, which people in most countries need to visit the U.S. for business and tourism, and restrictions in other countries that make travel difficult. 

      A flight to Chicago O'Hare in the USA is displayed on a board at Frankfurt airport under which passengers with suitcases walk along on Monday. 
      (Sebastian Gollnow/dpa via AP)
Even though people coming from China will now be allowed into the U.S., for example, not many are expected to travel because of restrictions at home. Before the pandemic, Chinese tourists were a lucrative market for the U.S. travel industry. 
Industry experts do expect a big influx in people flying from Europe, and hope that a broader recovery in travel follows as more people globally get vaccinated, U.S. visa processing speeds up, other countries lift their own restrictions and people feel less scared about getting COVID because of travel. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
China has confined nearly 1,500 university students to their dormitories and hotels following an outbreak of COVID-19 in the northeastern city of Dalian. 
The order was issued Sunday after several dozen cases were reported at Zhuanghe University City and hundreds of students were transferred to hotels for observation. 
Students were attending class remotely and having their meals delivered to their rooms. 
BIDEN PREPARES TO MEET WITH XI JINPING AMID ‘CONCERNS’ OVER CHINA’S ACTIONS 

      Residents wearing masks pass by artwork outside a mall in Beijing, China, on Nov. 13. 
      (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan, File)
The lockdown is the latest example of China’s zero-tolerance approach to the outbreak, which has brought considerable disruption to people’s lives and livelihoods. 
Quarantines, obligatory testing and travel restrictions have become the new normal for those even remotely caught up in outbreaks. The country's vaccination rate is among the world's highest and authorities have begun administering booster shots as winter descends. 
While those measures have met little open resistance, the recent killing of a quarantined person’s pet dog by health workers brought a wave of complaints online. The incident in the central city of Shangrao prompted local authorities to issue a statement saying the pet owner and health workers had "reached an understanding." 
Following the incident, the China Small Animal Protection Association called for a quarantine system to care for pets caught in such situations. 
"Pets are people's spiritual partners and should not be harmed under the pretext of fighting the pandemic," it said in a statement. "If you bring the hand of doom down on an innocent life without the slightest ability to defend itself, then how can you even talk about humanitarianism?" 
Among other new measures, Beijing starting Wednesday will require all people arriving from other parts of the country by plane, train, bus or car to produce a negative virus test taken over the previous 48 hours. 

      Residents wearing masks past by artwork outside a mall in Beijing, China, on Saturday.
      (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan, File)
Despite isolated cases in various parts of the country, China has been able to suppress major outbreaks over the past year, with its total number of reported cases standing at 98,315 with 4,636 deaths. 
On Monday, the National Health Commission announced 32 new cases of local transmission over the previous 24 hours, 25 of them in Dalian. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
LAS VEGAS – Former GOP Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey urged his party to stop looking back to former President Donald Trump’s 2020 election defeat and instead "move on and talk about issues that voters care about."
Christie spoke in a speech to an influential group of Republicans and in an interview with Fox News. 
Christie, who ran unsuccessfully for the 2016 GOP presidential nomination, told Fox News he’ll run for the White House again in 2024 if "I think I can win and I think I can make a difference."
Christie was in Las Vegas on Saturday, addressing the annual leadership meeting of the Republican Jewish Coalition (RJC), a major conference of party leaders, activists and mega-donors.
DESANTIS, AT MAJOR GOP GATHERING, VOWS HE'S ‘ONLY BEGUN TO FIGHT’
"We can no longer talk about the past and the past elections," the former governor, a supporter of Trump but vocal critic of the former president's litigating of the 2020 election, said to applause. 
"No matter where you stand on that issue, it’s over," Christie argued. "Every minute we spend talking about 2020, while we’re wasting time doing that, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer are laying ruin to this country. We better focus on that and take our eyes off the rearview mirror and start looking through the windshield again."
Asked about the reception his message received, Christie said, "I thought there was a lot of positive reaction in the audience. I  think they understand that the looking backwards part, we lose. We lose if we look backwards. We’ve got to go forwards, we’ve got to move on. We’ve got to move on and talk about issues that voters care about."
The former governor pointed to this past week’s gubernatorial victory by Republican Glenn Youngkin in Virginia, where the GOP hadn’t won statewide in a dozen years, and by Republican Jack Ciattarelli’s near upset of Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy in the blue state of New Jersey.
CRUZ CALLS 2021 ELECTIONS ‘ENORMOUSLY CONSEQUENTIAL,' DOESN'T RULE OUT 2024 RUN
"This past Tuesday was the beginning of the new era for the Republican Party," Christie told the crowd. 
"Glenn Youngkin did not have a backward-looking campaign and neither did Jack Ciattarelli," Christie emphasized in his interview." If what we’re going to continue to talk about is the 2020 election and grievance politics, I think you got a market test in Virginia and in New Jersey. And that market test was candidates don’t think that’s going to work. And one of those candidates won, and the other candidate came close in a blue state to winning."
Christie stressed "lower taxes and educational choice. That’s what people want to hear" and that Republicans "need to go back to winning suburban voters," which was a key to Youngkin’s victory in Virginia over former Democratic Gov. Terry McAuliffe.
RNC CHAIR MCDANIEL SAYS VIRGINIA A ‘TEST RUN’ FOR 2022 MIDTERMS 
Christie has been active so far this cycle in helping fellow Republicans seeking office or running for reelection. He serves as a co-national chair – along with former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo – of the National Republican Redistricting Trust, the GOP’s primary organization to coordinate the party’s redistricting strategy and build resources for its legal defense. 

      Former GOP Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey addresses the Republican Jewish Coalition's annual leadership meeting on Nov. 6, 2021 in Las Vegas. 
      (Fox News )
He’s also co-chair of the Republican Governors Association Victory Committee, "raising money for Republican governors and Republican gubernatorial candidates and traveling around the country to do that."
Christie was one of eight prominent Republicans speaking at the four-day RJC confab whom pundits view as potential 2024 GOP presidential hopefuls. 
HERE COMES THE FIRST MAJOR 2024 GOP PRESIDENTIAL CATTLE CALL
Five years ago, the then-New Jersey governor’s presidential run crashed and burned after a disappointing and distant sixth-place finish in New Hampshire’s presidential primary, where Christie had placed all his chips. Christie quickly backed Trump, who crushed the rest of the field in New Hampshire, launching him towards the Republican presidential nomination and eventually the White House.
Now, nearly 10 months removed from the presidency, Trump continues to flirt with another White House run in 2024. Christie is one of the few other Republicans mulling a GOP nomination run who’s comfortable discussing it publicly.
"Having run already, I’m not going to run for the experience. I’ve had the experience. If I run, I run because I think I can win, and I think I can make a difference," Christie told Fox News.  
He said he’s in no rush to make any decision because "the people of New Hampshire, the people of Iowa, and most of the people in the country know me, so I don’t have to go through the introductory process. So I’ll take my time, I’ll be thoughtful about it."
And Christie said that Republicans "know me pretty well and they may not agree with everything I say, but that everything I say is what I truly believe and what I’ll deliver if they give me the chance."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
The 'Rubin Report' host shares how conservatives can fight back against Big Tech censorship and how the media is doing under the Biden era. 
Political commentator and YouTube personality Dave Rubin sat down with Fox News to discuss the growing threat of Big Tech, the censorship debate and the media's partisan evolution before, during and after the Trump era. 
Rubin, who was invited to speak at the National Conservative conference in Orlando last week, has come a long way from his days as a "liberal lefty" on the progressive news outlet The Young Turks and a 2016 supporter of Sen. Bernie Sanders and now identifies, though a bit tongue in cheek, as a "far-right, crazy, freedom-loving American conservative, libertarian maniac."  
"I started waking up to some of the stuff that we all now see as very obvious," Rubin told Fox News. "I started saying, 'Hey, we on the left, why are we shouting everybody down at college campuses? Why are we calling everybody racist? Why are we calling everybody homophobes? They can't all be Nazis. We're not making arguments. We're just using these labels on people and that's not- that's not what I thought liberalism was about. In essence, liberalism actually isn't about that. I mean, that's the dirty secret amongst conservatives is that there is a difference between leftism and true classical liberalism, which is about individual rights and laissez-faire economics and things of that nature." 
DAVE RUBIN PROVIDES RECEIPTS FROM NEWS ORGS BACKING UP CLAIM TWITTER SUSPENDED HIM OVER ‘TRUE’ INFO
Rubin expressed "what really changed" him was how conservative icons he once viewed as "the bad guys" like commentators Dennis Prager, Larry Elder and Ben Shapiro, as well as Republican lawmakers like Sens. Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, were actually "pretty decent" people who were "willing to have that conversation" despite any political disagreements they may have.
"I'm actually thrilled to be here because I think what's happening here at the National Conservatism conference is that people are saying, 'Hey, we've got old school liberals, we've got libertarians, we have, say, religious conservatives,' but can these people all exist In a political movement? I think they can. That's really the challenge of the conference," Rubin said. 
The "Rubin Report" host railed against the media and its "love" for Big Tech censorship since it's "protecting their narrative."
"The people on CNN are not journalists. And you really need to understand that. Don Lemon and Chris Cuomo and Wolf Blitzer and Anderson Cooper and the rest of them are not journalists. They're all Democrats, obviously. That's not a controversial statement," Rubin told Fox News. "They're Democrats who basically launder Democrat and lefty talking points through the media, they launder the lies and they present it as truth. So the reason they're okay with the censorship is they don't like the other narrative getting out there." 
DAVE RUBIN FIRES BACK AT TWITTER FOR LOCKING ACCOUNT ON 'HARMFUL' COVID TWEET: 'THEY'RE COMING FOR EVERYBODY'
Rubin himself was the subject of Big Tech censorship over the summer when Twitter locked his account over a tweet that correctly predicted the implementation of federal vaccine mandates and decrying booster shots despite how COVID continues to spread among the vaccinated, writing "A sane society would take a pause. We do not live in a sane society."
After accusing him of "spreading misleading and potentially harmful information related to COVID-19," Twitter later admitted its crackdown of Rubin was an "error" following intense backlash. 
"They want to control the narrative and if you get information out before they want you to get it out, you're in trouble," Rubin said.  

      Dave Rubin launched a new tech company, Locals, to combat ongoing internet issues by creating a "safe digital home" for content creators. (Photo by Michael S. Schwartz/Getty Images)
      
Rubin expressed his battle against Twitter reaffirmed why he created Locals, a content-sharing platform that recently merged with the video-sharing platform Rumble, declaring the partnership the "first real tangible move against Big Tech." 
"Rumble has incredible, incredible infrastructure, the underbelly of the Internet to really compete with Amazon, AWS, so websites can't get blown off the internet the way Parler was after January 6. Locals- we built it from the ground up… What we're trying to do- and the reason these two companies came together, is we want to create a parallel ecosystem," Rubin told Fox News. "I'm not saying Twitter shouldn't exist. I'm not saying YouTube shouldn't exist. Let them exist, but they're censoring us, we know all the things they're doing… So we're just gonna create better products… So we are going to build a parallel ecosystem that treats speech more fairly, that we're going to try to be as transparent about our policies as possible. And I think this is really the first chance that we've had to stop this Big Tech onslaught."
J.D. VANCE SAYS ELITISM HAS ERODED THE MEDIA: CNN ‘FUNDAMENTALLY LOOKS DOWN’ ON AVERAGE AMERICANS
Regarding whether or not Congress has a role in the censorship debate, which he referred to as the "million-dollar question," Rubin believes that "human ingenuity and technology is the answer" but also the Big Tech companies have become "so massive" and "unbelievably powerful," the government at the very least can "make sure that we have a free market so that competition can exist." 
However, he did admit that the government is "not really good at anything" so the idea of its involvement "isn't great."
"I would prefer to do it with new technology and new ideas, but I think there's a very healthy debate there and I think you can make arguments a little more for intervention, that would be just fine, too," Rubin said. 

      NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE - APRIL 28: Dave Rubin is seen on the set of "Candace" on April 28, 2021 in Nashville, Tennessee. The show will air on Friday, April 30, 2021. (Photo by Jason Kempin/Getty Images)
      (Photo by Jason Kempin/Getty Images)
Rubin, who has no relation to Washington Post columnist Jennifer Rubin, tore into the media's transformation during the Trump era, noting how it was "a little hard to see how partisan they were" but that the 45th president "unmasked everybody" and "caused these people to just fall on their own sword" and expose themselves as "Democratic operatives." 
"All the media has to be is not horrible. They don't have to be great. Nobody expects them to be great. Just don't be horrible, but they cannot stop. They cannot stop themselves," Rubin said. "So I think what Trump did was expose the whole thing. And now because of that exposure, now that's why we have such tension between the online media and the mainstream media because it's obvious and it's out there and we are… we're battling for truth. And I believe the truth will set you free…. So I believe we're on the side of truth and I think I have great hope that we can keep winning intellectually, at least for now. And then maybe that will work its way into the culture and into the political system."
When asked if the media has gotten any better under President Biden, Rubin replied, "It's even worse." 
"Everyone knows there's something cognitively wrong with Biden. They refuse to cover it on mainstream media. They run cover for his ridiculous press conferences where they lie about everything. And let's be very clear: if Donald Trump was using the federal government to demand that companies and the federal government itself force people to be vaccinated, every single person who is for vaccine mandates right now would be screaming that this is Nazi-style assault on freedom," Rubin said. "So that's what I mean. Trump exposed them and now they're all going for it… You don't have to dislike [Biden] as much as me but if you were just an average person, you might say, 'Hey, you know, supply chain problems, gas price problems, food problems, Afghanistan- a bit of a disaster. We don't talk about that anymore.' But there's just no criticism because he's their guy."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
'Tucker Carlson Tonight' host examines the role the media played in the homicide case. 
People are totally absorbed in the Kyle Rittenhouse trial, and you have to ask, why is that? Why is it so fascinating? Well, part of the reason it's just so interesting is because the facts are so different from what we've been told for more than a year, completely different. And it's shocking to compare reality against the version of reality we've been force-fed. 
Here's one example. Just days after Rittenhouse was first arrested, that was back in August of 2020, a pro-censorship organization called PolitiFact published what it called a fact check of the case. In a posting on its website, PolitiFact claimed that Kyle Rittenhouse had committed a crime by carrying a firearm in the state of Wisconsin. Here's the quote. "It is against the law in Wisconsin for someone younger than 18 to possess a dangerous weapon. Period." 
Now you notice in that statement complete unwavering certainty, and this is common for PolitiFact, which issues opinions like they're edicts from God himself. They do this because the social media companies use PolitiFact edicts as a pretext to censor any speech online that contradicts the official line of the Democratic Party. The so-called narrative. 
RITTENHOUSE TRIAL: JURY DELIBERATIONS TO BEGIN TUESDAY MORNING: LIVE UPDATES
So PolitiFact disagrees with what you're posting, then you are, by definition, spreading misinformation and you must be silenced. That's how it works. So naturally, other media organizations echoed this position immediately. "Kyle Rittenhouse, 17," declared the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, "was not old enough to legally carry the assault-style rifle he had." Just stating it as fact. And then the entire national media followed suit and told us the same thing. 
The problem was it was a lie. In fact, under Wisconsin law, which apparently no one in any newsroom in America had even bothered to check, 17-year-olds are allowed to carry rifles as long as their barrels meet a minimum length requirement, and Kyle Rittenhouse’s rifle met that requirement. So no, Kyle Rittenhouse did not violate Wisconsin's gun laws. Today, even the prosecution at the trial was forced to admit that. And so immediately, the judge dismissed the firearms charge. 
JUDGE: Is it legal? 
PROSECUTION: It is not a short-barreled shotgun or a short-barreled rifle. 
JUDGE: Either by barrel or by overall length?
PROSECUTION: Correct. 
JUDGE: All right, then count six is dismissed. 
Oh, well, that couldn't be clearer. The prosecution is admitting in open court that it was legal. He had not committed a gun crime, and that means that for more than a year, Big Tech and its lackeys throughout our media have spread misinformation about Kyle Rittenhouse. Well, that's embarrassing. What are they going to say? Well, they're not going to admit it, of course. They're going to make certain you don't learn about it. 

      Kyle Rittenhouse listen as his attorney, Mark Richards, give his closing argument during  Rittenhouse's trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Wisconsin on Monday, Nov. 15, 2021. (Sean Krajacic/Kenosha News/Pool via USA TODAY NETWORK)
      
Just minutes after the judge in the case dismissed the gun charge, YouTube, which is owned by Google, censored the video streams of several independent legal experts who were commenting on the trial in real time. These were knowledgeable attorneys, many of whom were critical of the obvious weaknesses in the prosecution's case. 
KYLE RITTENHOUSE TRIAL: WHO IS LEAD PROSECUTOR THOMAS BINGER
Now, hundreds of people were watching those streams at the moment they were canceled, but over concern that Americans might conclude that Kyle Rittenhouse is innocent, YouTube shut them down, citing policy violations. In other words, God forbid people think for themselves. That's not allowed anymore. If you want to know what's happening in your world, you've got MSNBC to tell you. 
JOE SCARBOROUGH: We have a 17-year-old kid underage, said he bought an AR-15 because he thought it was cool. He drove across state, had his mother drive him across state lines. He appointed himself a militia member. He goes around and he ends up unloading, what, 60 rounds? 
Of all the people, you could find a comment on a killing, it's interesting who they chose. But just listen to the words, consider how totally dishonest the summary you just heard is. Virtually every word is a lie. 
Kyle Rittenhouse wasn't a militia member. He was a lifeguard. Kyle Rittenhouse did not fire 60 rounds, not even close to that. He was not underage, as we just told you, He was not in illegal possession of his gun. But most amazing is the claim, which you're hearing everywhere right now, that Kyle Rittenhouse is bad because he "drove across state lines." 
Think about that for just a second. So the very same people who have told you for years that borders are by definition White supremacy now claim it's some kind of moral offense for an American citizen to enter a contiguous state. You're making it sound like Kyle Rittenhouse snuck into a foreign land under cover of darkness to murder people. That's not quite what happened. 
NANCY GRACE DOES A DEEP-DIVE INTO KYLE RITTENHOUSE CASE: ‘HOW DID THAT HAPPEN?’
If you look at the map, you can see Kyle Rittenhouse’s drive from his mother's home in Antioch, Illinois, to Kenosha, Wisconsin. Our map says 17 miles, probably shorter than your commute to work every morning. As Kyle Rittenhouse explained on the stand last week, when mobs set fire to Kenosha, he had every reason to want to defend the city because his father lives there.
PROSECUTION: But you decided you needed to run because of the fire on the Duramax? 
RITTENHOUSE: Yes. 
PROSECUTION: Why? What was so urgent? 
RITTENHOUSE: It was a fire. 
…
PROSECUTION: Why did you feel that you should go around off the 59th Street car service property and put out fires. 
RITTENHOUSE: To make sure my community didn't get burnt down and help. 
PROSECUTION: And how do we say your community, You mean Kenosha? 
RITTENHOUSE: Yes. 
PROSECUTION: Again, you're from Antioch. You're not living in Kenosha at this time when this all happens, right? 
RITTENHOUSE: My dad lives in Kenosha.
How dare you put out fires? Well, my dad lives in Kenosha. 
Bet you didn't know that, bet you hadn't heard it on CNN. Nor have any of the people hyperventilating about crossing state lines explained why it's OK for the BLM rioters and the Antifa creeps to come from around the country to burn Kenosha down, as many of them did. Haven’t even addressed that. It’s kind of weird. Wasn't a crime for them to cross state lines. We could go on. 

      Kyle Rittenhouse testifies during cross examination in his trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Wisconsin on Wednesday, Nov. 10, 2021. 
      (Mark Hertzberg /Pool Photo via AP)
But if there's one thing this trial has taught us, it's how completely dishonest and totally misleading so many of the news accounts of what Kyle Rittenhouse did have been. We've known for more than a year, for example, how Rittenhouse first encountered convicted child rapist Joseph Rosenbaum, the first man he shot. There are multiple witnesses to that. Most of it's on video, actually. 
Joseph Rosenbaum had just been released from a mental hospital and for some reason decided to join the riot. So first he lit a fire. Then he began to swing a chain like a weapon. When he saw Kyle Rittenhouse, he threatened to kill Kyle Rittenhouse. Then he chased Rittenhouse in a full sprint, cornered him, and then tried to snatch his gun from his hands. 
THE CASE AGAINST KYLE RITTENHOUSE JUST GOT SMALLER
It was at that point that Rittenhouse fired. Who wouldn't fire at that point? After shooting Rosenbaum, Rittenhouse tried to turn himself in to police, but he couldn't because a mob howling for his death chased him down a city street. 
One rioter knocked Kyle Rittenhouse to the ground, another smashed him in the head with a skateboard, and a third rioter drew a loaded pistol, which he was not allowed to have, unlike Kyle Rittenhouse, and pointed it in Kyle Rittenhouse’s face. 
So at no point was Kyle Rittenhouse the aggressor in the sequence of events. Every move he made was defensive. That's not our interpretation of it. That's what came out from prosecutors and witnesses in court. None of these facts are disputed. They all happened. 
So that's a very tough problem for the prosecution. With facts like those, What exactly do you say? What they said is really interesting. Today the prosecutor was left trying to argue that convicted child rapist mental patient Joseph Rosenbaum, whose criminal record you can read online, and you should get a sense of who they're defending here, that this guy had threatened to murder Kyle Rittenhouse in front of witnesses, and yet actually, he was not a threat to Kyle Rittenhouse. And to prove it, the prosecutor showed a video.
PROSECUTION: Here is the defendant running in between those parked cars slowing down, and you can see just how close or rather how far away Mr. Rosenbaum was when the defendant shot him. 
I mean, seriously, "You can see just how close. I mean, sorry, just how far away he was." Right. Yeah. So everyone whose eyes were open could actually see it because you just played the tape, Dumbo. 
KYLE RITTENHOUSE'S MOTHER SLAMS JOE BIDEN FOR ‘DEFAM[ING]' HER SON IN EXCLUSIVE ‘HANNITY’ INTERVIEW
Apparently, the prosecution is hoping the jury had its eyes closed for that part of the proceedings. The whole thing is ridiculous. And it got more absurd as the day progressed. The prosecutor Thomas Binger explained that if you take steps to defend yourself, you have by definition given up your right to self-defense. 
BINGER: They have to convince you that Joseph Rosenbaum was going to take that gun and use it on the defendant because they know you can't claim self-defense against an unarmed man like this. You lose the right to self-defense when you're the one who brought the gun. 

      Kyle Rittenhouse testifies during his trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse on Nov. 10, 2021, in Kenosha, Wisconsin. 
      (Mark Hertzberg-Pool/Getty Images)
Who’s writing the rules here? Let's just pause for a second and go through what he said. There's no such thing as self-defense against a man who has no gun. Really? Well, according to the federal government's own statistics, far more people in this country are beaten to death every year than are killed by AR-15s. So that is a, by definition, ridiculous claim. 
If an ex-con with a history of violent crime informs you that he is going to murder you and then tries to grab your gun from your hands, you are allowed to respond. In fact, you have to respond because it would be suicidal not to, obviously. But as a legal matter, all that matters here is whether Kyle Rittenhouse reasonably believed that his life was in danger. 
KYLE RITTENHOUSE TRIAL: JURY COULD BE ALLOWED TO WEIGH LESSER CHARGES AGAINST ACCUSED KENOSHA SHOOTER
And of course, he believed that. Why wouldn't he? You would believe that too if you were him. But it's the second part of the prosecutor's lie that tells you the most about how these people think. Here's the quote. "You lose the right to self-defense when you're the one that brought the gun." 
Really, Mr. Binger. So no one with a concealed carry permit is allowed to defend himself? What's the point of having a gun if you can't save your own life with it? 
Well, that's exactly what they're telling you. They're telling you you don't have that right? You have no right to resist. That's the whole point of this whole proceeding. So the next time BLM sweeps into your town, your neighborhood, your house to burn and loot and brandish weapons, you had better not try to protect yourself or your family. Try to protect yourself or your family, and we will charge you with murder. And while we're at it, we'll have the national media call you racist. 
HOW KYLE RITTENHOUSE ENDED UP IN KENOSHA ARMED WITH AN AR-15
MSNBC GUEST: In the court of public opinion, they're really arguing that White men, especially White men with a gun, are allowed and have the space to defend and protect a country and a social order that keeps them at the top, and a country that they stole from indigenous folks and built with Black people's labor. … The media is participating in perpetuating this charade because as far as I can tell, the only reason why any of this is allowed is because of the Whiteness of it all. 
So who emptied the gender studies department and put them all on television all at once? How destructive is this to the country? Seriously, putting crap like that on television. If you're wondering, can they racialize anything? The answer is yes, they can. 
In this case, there is, to restate the obvious, no racial angle to the story. And if you're looking for proof, consider the fact that everybody involved in the story is the same color. And in fact, in point of fact, the only bigot on the scene appears to have been Joseph Rosenbaum, the child rapist. For some reason, and it's on video, don't take our word for it, Rosenbaum kept screaming the N-word, huh? And yet it's Kyle Rittenhouse who Joe Biden accused of being a White supremacist on the basis of no evidence whatsoever. And let's hope at some point he gets sued for that. Now they're calling the judge the same thing too.
JUDGE: Let's hope for one o'clock, I don't know, hope the Asian food isn't coming. This is not one of those boats in Long Beach Harbor.
MSNBC HOST: Yes, that was the judge. Make an off-color joke about Asian food during a murder trial. … I want to ask you how unusual is the judge's conduct currently? 
MSNBC GUEST: Well, I think some of the things were way out of line. So, you know, the comment about the Asian food, for example.
Oh, yeah, that's racist. But really, it's only racist if you were exercising your right to self-defense or if you're trying to conduct a fair trial. If you don't inject equity into the trial and judge people on the basis of their skin color rather than what they actually did.
If you dare to do that in this post-equity country, this post-BLM nation, you are by definition, a racist. 
So they won't admit to the public that they lied to all of us for more than a year. This is all they have left. You're a racist. MSNBC is by far the worst offender. It's shocking, actually, when you look at it carefully. 
But it's not the only offender. They're all doing it. CNN’s so-called race and equity team – can you even imagine what those people are like – just published a piece entitled, and we’re not making this up, "Judge in Kyle Rittenhouse trial makes inappropriate Asian food joke." Inappropriate being the favored word of people who want to slur someone, you want to attack someone's reputation without explaining exactly why. Inappropriate. What does that mean? It’s entirely subjective. 
But according to the piece, as it gets more specific, the judge's joke about supply chains and food puts Asians "in the crosshairs of microaggression, as well as actual physical violence." 
KYLE RITTENHOUSE TRIAL PROSECUTION BLEW UP THEIR OWN CASE: KATIE PAVLICH
So when you make a joke about Chinese takeout, which, by the way, if you were a bigot, you probably wouldn't be eating in the first place, but if you dare to make that joke, you're dangerous. If you're the judge and you haven't already unilaterally given Kyle Rittenhouse the death penalty for offending MSNBC and Joe Scarborough, then you're a physical threat to Asian people. 
These people are demented and they're dangerous, and that kind of talk degrades the social fabric faster than everything. Anything you can imagine. But if you're looking for true crazy, no one beats the race lady over at MSNBC. 
JOY REID: Earlier today, the teenager accused of murdering two men and wounding a third in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last year took to the stand in his own defense. And the circumstances are almost built for an actual CRT course. The White, now 18-year-old, faces an almost entirely White jury of his peers, with the exception of one Black man. Dream with me, Paul. Could any child of color, young person of color ever, ever, ever, ever do that on a stand and get away with it? 
MSNBC GUEST: You already know, Joy, of course not, this is White privilege on steroids. 
Again, there's no racial angle here. Everybody's the same color. So if a White guy shooting another White guy is an example of racism, maybe you should tell us how. This is insane. Just so you know, 
This article is adapted from Tucker Carlson's opening commentary on the November 15, 2021 edition of "Tucker Carlson Tonight."
Get the recap of top opinion commentary and original content throughout the week.
Subscribed
Sean Hannity breaks down Biden's destructive economic and energy policies in his Opening Monologue
In his Opening Monologue on Wednesday, host Sean Hannity slammed President Biden's speech at the Port of Baltimore, Maryland earlier in the day, in which he suggested the economy is doing fine in a recovery sense and that there is misinformation being spread about the strength of the U.S. supply chain.
Hannity said that working class families are watching their dollars be worth less, their commodity costs going up, and their energy prices skyrocket going into the colder months of the Northern Hemisphere.
"Joe Biden and his radicalized New Green Deal socialist policies are destroying the good economy he inherited. During his inauguration, Joe laughably promised to be a unifier... Instead in the months that have followed, he has bowed at the altar of New Green Deal Socialism and that’s where he is today," Hannity said.
"Joe Biden doesn’t care that everything is more expensive. He doesn’t care your quality of life is diminishing daily; doesn’t care the money in your bank account is worth a lot less. The fragile opinions of his wealthy and well-connected Green New Deal socialist visionaries are more important," the host continued, queueing up clips of Biden in the Charm City earlier in the afternoon.
Biden again claimed the socioeconomic overhaul spending plan dubbed Build Back Better "won't raise taxes a single cent [and] is totally paid for" before stating that the supply crunch is due to people wanting to order more goods while they are at home during the pandemic.

      President Biden lost the mainstream media when allowed the Taliban to seize control of Afghanistan.
      
"[There is] higher demand for goods at the same time we are facing disruptions in the supplies to make those goods. It’s a recipe for delays and higher prices. People are feeling it," the president said.
"Did you ever think you would be paying this much for a gallon of gas?" Biden asked.
The average price per gallon in Maryland, where Biden visited, is $3.38 for 87-octane; a 52% year-to-date increase, according to the American Automobile Association (AAA).
Hannity replied that he and others have warned Biden since his first day in office that his policies would lead to pain at the pump, as the Delaware Democrat suddenly cancelled the multinational Keystone XL pipeline between Alberta, Canada and Port Arthur, Texas. 
"We gave up energy independence," Hannity went on to say in his monologue, before focusing on another individual he called Biden's latest troubling nominee.
Saule Omarova, Biden's nominee to be Comptroller of the Currency at the Treasury Department, previously decried the fossil fuel industry, asserting that "small players" should "probably go bankrupt in short order – at least we want them to go bankrupt if we want to tackle climate change."

      Cornell Prof. Saule Omarova is President Biden's nominee to run the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, accused Republicans of "Red Scare McCarthyism" in their opposition of her. 
      (Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs)
Omarova, a Kazakhstan-born Cornell University law professor, further came under fire for her academic record of attending Moscow State University on a V.I. Lenin Personal Academic Scholarship. The nominee denied any Marxist political sympathies – as Fox Business reported her joining a socialist "Marxist Analysis and Policy" discussion group on social media in 2019.
In October, she said she was being unfairly targeted because of her identity as an immigrant and a woman, according to the Washington Examiner.
"[Omarova] wants to bankrupt the energy industry. Hopefully she won’t be confirmed," Hannity said.
Hannity said Omarova's positions in fact line up with Biden's own stated beliefs, pointing to an exchange between the Delaware Democrat and a supporter at a Peterborough, N.H., campaign stop.
Biden promised the concerned man that he would "do away with subsidies to fossil fuels, number one, – number two holding [companies] liable for what they have done."
"I'm not joking – I'll put them in jail," he added.
In closing, Hannity said Biden is "willing to get rid of high-paying career jobs in the energy sector in the name of bowing at the altar of climate change."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Dr. Frita Fisher discusses the benefits of children getting vaccinated compared to long-term side effects from COVID-19.
The Biden administration on Monday kicked off "a nationwide effort" to encourage schools, parents and guardians to vaccinate children against COVID, saying "vaccination is the best tool we have" to ensure students are safe, and that schools remain opened for in-person learning. 
Education Secretary Miguel Cardona and Health and Human Service Secretary Xavier Becerra sent a letter to school superintendents and elementary school principals across the nation Monday morning, encouraging them to share information with families about COVID-19 vaccines for children. 
COVID-19 VACCINATION AND YOUNG CHILDREN: WHAT TO KNOW
The letter comes just days after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended use of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for children ages 5 through 11 years old.
"Today, we reach out to you with encouragement for you to actively support the vaccination process for children in your state, territories, county, tribes, communities and schools," they wrote. "This is a very exciting development and a significant opportunity to protect some of our youngest learners and our communities."
"Vaccination is the best tool we have to keep our students safe from COVID-19, maintain in-person learning, and prevent the closure of schools and cancellation of valued extracurricular activities," they wrote, adding that vaccination, "paired with prevention strategies" like masking, testing, tracing, distancing and improving ventilation "can significantly limit COVID-19 transmission."
"Schools play a vital role in providing access to and trusted information on the vaccine," they wrote, adding that "parents listen closely to school leaders and personnel."
"We urge you to do all you can to help parents and families learn about the vaccine and get access to it," they wrote.
CDC DIRECTOR WALENSKY SIGNS OFF ON PFIZER VACCINE FOR CHILDREN 5 TO 11
Cardona and Becerra requested that schools host COVID-19 vaccine clinics, noting that the CDC has developed resources for schools to use in standing clinics up, and pointing to funding in the American Rescue Plan and through FEMA "to ensure that you can cover all costs of hosting a clinic."
They also requested that schools distribute information about the COVID-19 vaccines to all families with children between the ages of 5 and 11.
"Parents rely on their children’s teachers, principals, school nurses, and other school personnel to help keep their students safe and healthy every school year," they wrote. "The communications you issue—in languages accessible to your parents—will be critical in helping families learn more about the vaccine."
They added: "We encourage you to use this opportunity to highlight the safety and effectiveness of vaccines and explain why they are critical to protecting individuals from COVID-19, lowing community and family transmission, and keeping children safely in in-person learning." Cardona and Becerra said that, "as parents ourselves, we understand that parents of children who are newly eligible for the vaccine will have questions about the vaccine."
They also urged schools to hold conversations and community engagements on COVID vaccines with parents in partnership with local pediatricians and other trusted medical voices in their communities.
TRUMP SURGEON GENERAL SPEAKS OUT ON VACCINATING KIDS
Cardona and Becerra also suggested partnering with community or faith-based organizations as well as collaborating with student leaders "to make efforts fun and get young people to participate."
"We need your help now more than ever to continue to protect our communities and our children," they wrote.
The letter comes ahead of first lady Jill Biden and U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy’s visit to a school vaccination clinic in Virginia on Monday.
That visit, according to a White House official, will "kick off a nationwide effort from the Biden administration to encourage parents and guardians to vaccinate children ages 5-11."
The first lady’s visit will be the first White House visit to a pediatric COVID-19 vaccination clinic since the CDC’s recommendation of the use of the pediatric Pfizer vaccine on Nov. 2.
A White House official told Fox News that the effort will include the first lady, over the coming weeks, visiting pediatric COVID-19 vaccination clinics across the country, including at schools, children’s hospitals and other community sites, and will encourage more sites to offer vaccines for children in their communities.
The official also told Fox News that the Biden administration is encouraging school districts across the country to set up "school-located vaccine clinics" by using funds from the American Rescue Plan "to help operationalize these clinics," and by using providers through the Federal Retail Pharmacy Program to administer vaccines.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
In media news today, Kamala Harris' spokeswoman hits back at CNN, an MSNBC anchor gets slammed on Twitter for arguing Americans can afford more expensive groceries, and Axios warns about a 'reckoning' on news outlets that touted the Steele dossier
Conservatives online had a field day after White House press secretary Jen Psaki's public pushback against reports of White House exasperation with Vice President Kamala Harris.
Following a CNN article about dysfunction in Harris' office and mutual frustrations between her and President Joe Biden's office about her difficult roles, awkward moments like laughing off questions about the border, and dwindling approval rating, Psaki took to Twitter Sunday evening to praise Harris as a "vital partner."
"For anyone who needs to hear it. @VP is not only a vital partner to @POTUS but a bold leader who has taken on key, important challenges facing the country — from voting rights to addressing root causes of migration to expanding broadband," she tweeted.
From highlighting some of the key issues that Harris is struggled to make headway on to casting further prominence on a story about Harris' problematic start as vice president – her approval is as low as 28 percent in one survey – Psaki's missive was panned by the right online.

      U.S. President Joe Biden delivers remarks about his Build Back Better agenda and the bipartisan infrastructure deal as Vice President Kamala Harris stands by in the East Room of the White House in Washington, U.S., October 28, 2021.
      (REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst)
CNN COMMENTATORS FUME AFTER CNN REPORT ON KAMALA HARRIS OFFICE DYSFUNCTION: ‘I HAD TO PUSH BACK HEAVILY’
"Yikes, this is how you know it's bad," Christina Pushaw, press secretary for Republican Florida Gov. Ron Desantis, tweeted.
"It says a lot that this statement is coming from the press secretary and not, you know, her boss," Heritage's John Cooper noted.
Insider columnist Josh Barro joked that his t-shirt about the administration not being disappointed with Harris was raising questions already answered by his shirt.
PSAKI CLAIMS BIDEN DOESN'T SPEND MUCH TIME THINING ABOUT ‘LET’S GO BRANDON' RALLYING CRY

      White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki, on her first day back after testing positive for COVID-19, speaks during a press briefing at the White House in Washington, U.S., November 12, 2021.
      (REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque)
Others said the apparent necessity to release such a statement suggested internal issues were real for the administration. Given the report that Harris' team thought some of the lack of defense of her from Biden's shop was politically driven, Psaki's statement was viewed as further shade her way disguised as support.
CNN's lengthy report delved into Harris' frustrations over being politically sidelined and handed unwinnable assignments. Some of her allies also complained she was being treated unfairly by the media and the Biden administration, with one unnamed former Harris aide saying Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg received a more robust defense from the White House after his paternity leave dust-up because he was a White man.
Even lawmakers weighed in, with Sen. Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn., snarking that Psaki should let people know what Harris had done to end the border crisis.
For all the pushback Psaki's statement got, the White House stuck with it. Communications director Kate Bedingfield reiterated the post Monday morning, "just in case you missed it."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
The non-profit Advocates For Citizens' Rights organized a protest against vaccine mandates in San Francisco
Two California Highway Patrol officers were injured when a car crashed into them during a protest over vaccine mandates Thursday on the Golden Gate Bridge. 
The officers were transported to a local hospital with non-life-threatening injuries. Three Golden Gate Bridge employees were also injured in the wreck, one of which was taken to the hospital. 
The officers were trying to keep anti-vaccine mandate protesters off of the roadway at the time of the accident, a California Highway Patrol spokesperson told Fox News. 
Video of the wreck appeared to show a car sideswiping a truck, sending both vehicles into a parked car. 
GOV. NEWSOM ANNOUNCES CALIFORNIA FIRST STATE TO REQUIRE COVID VACCINATIONS FOR K-12 STUDENTS
The Southern Marin Fire District tweeted that crews were on scene to transport victims for treatment. 
About 200 protesters gathered at the Golden Gate Bridge on Thursday to protest vaccine mandates.  (KTVU)
 (KTVU)
 (KTVU)
A couple of hundred protesters gathered near the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco on Thursday to rally against government vaccine mandates. 
They carried signs that read, "My body my choice" and "Freedom not force."
The protest was organized by the California non-profit Advocates for Citizens' Rights, which encouraged a nationwide walkout earlier in the week to protest employers mandating vaccines. 
San Francisco was the first large city in America to announce a vaccine mandate for all city employees in June. 
The Biden administration laid out a nationwide vaccine order last week for companies with 100 or more employees, mandating that workers either get vaccinated or get tested for the virus weekly starting in January. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
A federal judge overturned Gov. Greg Abbott's executive order banning mask mandates in Texas schools Wednesday, citing a violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
U.S. District Court Judge Lee Yeakel barred Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton from enforcing Abbott’s order, which follows months of legal wrangling between parents and the state regarding whether the governor's order violates the ADA, according to The Texas Tribune.

      FILE - In this March 16, 2020, file photo, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott speaks during a news conference in San Antonio.
      (AP Photo/Eric Gay, File)
"The spread of COVID-19 poses an even greater risk for children with special health needs," Yeakel said. "Children with certain underlying conditions who contract COVID-19 are more likely to experience severe acute biological effects and to require admission to a hospital and the hospital’s intensive-care unit."
The judge's ruling now allows local officials to make their own rules regarding mask mandates.

      FILE - Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis speaks at the opening of a monoclonal antibody site Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021, in Pembroke Pines, Fla.
      (AP Photo/Marta Lavandier)
The advocacy group Disability Rights Texas filed the federal lawsuit against Abbott in August on behalf of several families in the state. The suit, which also named Paxton and Texas Education Agency Commissioner Mike Morath, argued that that executive order denies public education to children who are at high risk from the virus.
Kym Davis Rogers, who represented Disability Rights Texas, noted that the court ruled that Texas is not above federal law.
"No student should be forced to make the choice of forfeiting their education or risking their health, and now they won’t have to," Rogers said.

      Joseph G. Allen, Harvard University associate professor, penned a piece that calls on schools to do away with the polarizing practice of forcing children to wear masks. 
      (istock)
Abbott's ban on school mask mandates echoes that of Gov. Ron DeSantis, R-Fla., who has repeatedly clashed with the Biden administration over the issue.
DeSantis signed an executive order in July that made mask-wearing optional in public schools, despite updated mask guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that recommends all teachers and students to mask up, regardless of whether they have been vaccinated.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Senior White House Adviser Cedric Richmond strongly defends Biden's Build Back Better plan and the President's stance on border family payouts
White House Senior Adviser Cedric Richmond would not confirm nor deny that the Biden administration would be making payments to illegal immigrants who were separated from their children under the Trump administration, but insisted that President Biden is up to speed on the situation despite seemingly contradictory comments on the subject.
On Wednesday, Biden had denied that a report about possible $450,000 payments to people separated from their families was real, leading the ACLU to claim that he "may not have been fully briefed" about what the Department of Justice was doing. On Saturday, the president came out in support of payments.
FLORIDA GOV SAYS BIDEN ADMIN HAS LANDED DOZENS OF SECRET FLIGHTS CARRYING ILLEGAL IMMIGRATNS INTO THE STATE
"The president’s in the loop," Richmond told "Fox News Sunday," noting that Biden said all along that his Justice Department would be independent.
Biden's claim that the payments were not real came in response to a question from Fox News' Peter Doocy, who asked whether they would incentivize illegal immigration.
"If you guys keep sending that garbage out, yeah. But it’s not true," Biden responded. 
On Saturday, however, Biden said an immigrant – legal or illegal – would  "deserve some sort of compensation no matter what the circumstances" if they were separated from their child.
Richmond claimed that this was not a contradiction because when Biden responded to Doocy’s question, he was really saying that "it was an absurd question from the beginning" because "no one’s coming somewhere to lose their child." This, despite Biden stating that "yeah," it would be an incentive if it were true, insisting that it was false.
BIDEN REPEATS CLAIM HE'LL BE IN ‘TROUBLE’ FOR TAKING PRESS QUESTION
When asked by "Fox News Sunday" guest host Bill Hemmer how much the payments would be, Richmond said did not have that information, nor would he confirm that there would even be any payments.
"That’s for the Justice Department to decide," he said, "if it shows that it saves taxpayers money, if it rights a wrong, and the Justice Department determines that there is compensation that should be paid. That is an independent Justice Department."
Earlier in the interview, Richmond spoke about the $1.75 trillion social spending bill that Democrats are trying to pass. House Minority Leader Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., noted that despite the advertised price tag, a Wharton School analysis said it would really cost more along the lines of $4 trillion. Richmond insisted that this estimate was based on a previous version of the bill, as well as "assumptions that are just not factual" regarding what Congress would do in the future.
Richmond said that passing the bill is of the utmost importance, citing economists who said it would help with inflation and ongoing supply chain problems.
"We need to get it done. We need to get it done now," he said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Rep. Nicole Malliotakis, R-N.Y., reiterated her support for the Democrats' infrastructure bill, arguing it dismantles leverage from the 'socialist squad.'
The 13 House Republicans who voted for the infrastructure bill are coming under heavy fire from the Trump wing of the GOP, including cutting comments from the former president himself, a reported threat to remove them from their committee assignments and death threats from the public, according to one office. 
"Very sad that the RINOs in the House and Senate gave Biden and Democrats a victory on the ‘Non-Infrastructure’ Bill," Trump said in a statement. "They just don’t get it!"
But those Republicans, including Reps. Nicole Malliotakis, R-N.Y., Fred Upton, R-Mich., and Don Bacon, R-Neb., are firing back, arguing that their votes made Democrats' massive social spending bill less likely to pass. They say this is because progressives like Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., can no longer hold the infrastructure bill hostage, so moderate Democrats will be free to tank the reconciliation spending bill. 
"We significantly took away the leverage from the socialist ‘Squad,’" on the reconciliation spending bill, Malliotakis said on Fox News Tuesday. "It is why AOC and the others voted against it."
TRUMP UNLOADS ON 13 REPUBLICANS WHO BACKED BIDEN'S INFRASTUCTURE BILL
Ocasio-Cortez was one of six progressive Democrats to vote against infrastructure. She explicitly cited the need to preserve leverage for big spending in the reconciliation package. 
Malliotakis added: "We've taken away their leverage and that this spending bill will either continue to be reduced… The fact that they are crying about it just tells you they're the losers here." 
Trump and his allies in and out of Congress believe the pro-infrastructure Republicans handed President Biden a win at the most vulnerable point in his presidency. Some even accuse the group of being "traitors," a charged term in a Republican Party still largely dominated by the former president. 
Fox News Digital confirmed reports that Trump railed against the Republicans who voted for infrastructure at a National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) dinner Monday, with Malliotakis in attendance. And Punchbowl News reported this week that there is even a behind-the-scenes effort to strip the 13 pro-infrastructure Republicans of their committee assignments. 
Bacon pushed back against the criticism, saying in a Tuesday phone interview with Fox News that it makes him "angry as hell because most of it’s false."
Rep. Fred Upton, R-Mich., listens during a news conference outside the Capitol in Washington, D.C., on July 30, 2021.  (Stefani Reynolds/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
Rep. Nicole Malliotakis, R-N.Y., talks with Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, during a forum in Washington on June 29, 2021.  (Caroline Brehman/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
Bacon emphasized the distinction between the infrastructure bill and the Democrats’ $1.7 trillion reconciliation package, and blasted critics of the legislation for "using data from the reconciliation bill to attack this bill."
MEET THE 13 REPUBLICANS WHO VOTED FOR THE INFRASTRUCTURE BILL
The Nebraska Republican said the argument against the bill "stems from our leadership saying that a vote for hard infrastructure bills are votes for reconciliation, and that is just absolutely false." The U.S. needs "modernized infrastructure," Bacon said. 
"So I don't like how our side and some of our local 'conservative media' has said that a vote for this is a vote for the other," Bacon said. "It's false and ultimately I hold our team responsible if they're using it."
"There is a lot of misinformation being circulated, but the truth is that this bill is good for my district and good for the country," Rep. Andrew Garbarino, R-N.Y., told Fox News.
"It will deliver nearly $170 billion to New York State to make crucial infrastructure investments and create middle-class jobs while fixing our roads, bridges, railroads and sewer systems to make Long Islanders’ lives better," he added. "[B]y passing this bill, we have weakened the position of progressives in negotiating their wasteful spending bill because they can no longer hold physical infrastructure hostage to get their way."

      Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., talks with a reporter as she walks down the House steps in Washington on July 1, 2021. 
      ( (Photo by Caroline Brehman/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images))
Some criticism has also fallen on House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., for allegedly not being able to sufficiently control his conference. Former Trump campaign lawyer Jenna Ellis said, "McCarthy handed Biden his infrastructure bill on a silver platter." 
But GOP leadership whipped against the infrastructure bill for weeks and faced an uphill battle to reduce any "yes" votes when initial estimates of Republicans who supported the bill were as high as 50 or more. 
Billy Fuerst, a spokesman for Upton – one of the yeses – said if there was a straight infrastructure vote in August before progressives tied it to infrastructure, there may have been 80 Republicans supporting the bill. 
DEMOCRATS, BIDEN CELEBRATE AFTER $1.2T INFRASTRUCTURE BILL PASSES – DESPITE SOME ‘NO’ VOTES
"The flashy number 13 is not telling the whole story," a House Republican aide told Fox News. "When you have that small of a threshold, and progressives changing their mind basically on the floor, and all of these Republican yeses who have been that way very publicly for a long time... At the same time 19 Republicans, or 38% of Republicans in the Senate, including McConnell, voted for it. And we had 6% of our conference vote for it. At the end of the day, House Republicans voted or it at a much smaller margin than the Senate did."
Regarding the potential of the 13 "yes" votes losing their committee assignments, Fuerst said, "I don't think that's gonna happen." 
Among the 19 Senate GOP yeses, Fuerst argued, was "Lindsey Graham, who is virtually President Trump’s one of his closest friends in the Senate."
"Regrettably we’re getting death threats from the office," Fuerst added. "Par for the course since January ever since Mr. Upton voted to impeach the former president."

      Rep. Fred Upton, R-Mich., testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington at a House Rules Committee meeting. An aide told Fox News his office has been getting death threats after voting for the infrastructure bill.
      (AP)
Fuerst also pointed out that Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan – a Republican – was one of the driving forces behind the infrastructure talks when they began earlier this year. He added that as a member of the Problem Solvers Caucus, Upton helped "jumpstart" efforts behind the bill, which he said includes only $550 billion in new spending, with the rest simply reauthorization of previously planned highway spending. 
Fuerst also said now that infrastructure is passed, the "path narrows" for Democrats to pass their massive social spending bill. 
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said he believes the exact opposite is the case on "The Ingraham Angle" this week. The pro-infrastructure Republicans "increased momentum" for the reconciliation bill, he said, and decided "to rescue Nancy Pelosi from the bill crashing on its own." 
"I pray to God the Bernie Sanders socialist budget doesn’t pass but these Republicans, sadly, made it more likely," Cruz added. 
But, Fuerst said, "They need [West Virginia Democrat Sen. Joe] Manchin," to pass reconciliation – but now they don't have the infrastructure bill as a hostage. 
Fox News' Andrew Mark Miller contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Rio Grande City Mayor Joel Villarreal discusses U.S.-Mexico meeting and the impact of a migrant surge on his community 
A Texas Democrat switched his affiliation to the Republican Party over the party's left-leaning embrace of defunding the police policies and "chaos" on the southern border.
State Rep. Ryan Guillen announced in a Monday press conference that he would seek reelection to his south Texas seat as a Republican, saying the Democratic Party's far-left values are no longer in line with his own.
Specifically, Guillen cited his now-former party’s backing of defunding the police and the compounding crisis at the southern border under President Biden.
RIO GRANDE VALLEY BORDER PATROL ENCOUNTER NEARLY 2,000 MIGRANTS IN 24 HOURS, HUNDREDS GET PAST AGENTS

      Mounted U.S. Border Patrol agents watch Haitian immigrants on the bank of the Rio Grande in Del Rio, Texas on Sept. 20, 2021 as seen from Ciudad Acuna, Mexico.  
      (John Moore/Getty Images)
"Friends, something is happening in South Texas, and many of us are waking up to the fact that the values of those in Washington, D.C., are not our values, not the values of most Texans," Guillen said.
"The ideology of defunding the police, of destroying the oil and gas industry and the chaos at our border is disastrous for those of us who live here in South Texas," he continued.
The former Democrat had won his seat by nearly 17 points in the 2020 election and has served in the Texas House for almost two decades. Guillen's switch is a win for Republicans as the party pushes to gain traction along the historically blue border.
Republican Gov. Greg Abbott and Texas House Speaker Dade Phelan joined Guillen at his announcement in Floresville.

      Speaker of the House Dade Phelan, R-Orange, presides as they House prepares to debate voting bill SB1, Thursday, Aug. 26, 2021, in Austin, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)
      
"John Lujan’s upset victory earlier this month in a district with a majority Hispanic population already proved that Texans are fed up with the failures of Democratic leadership and Ryan Guillen’s party switch makes that fact all the more clear," Republican State Leadership Committee (RSLC) president Dee Duncan said in a Monday statement.
"Today’s Democrat leaders are so focused on appeasing their fringe-left base by putting teachers’ unions ahead of parents, pushing socialist tax and spending schemes, and fighting for open border policies, that even elected officials in their own party cannot support their radical agenda anymore," Duncan continued.
Duncan said the Republicans "welcome" Guillen to the party "with open arms and look forward to working with him" as he works with his new GOP colleagues "to deliver solutions for the people of his district."

      Texas Gov. Greg Abbott announces the reopening of more Texas businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic at a press conference at the Texas State Capitol in Austin on Monday, May 18, 2020.
      (Lynda M. Gonzalez-Pool/Getty Images)
The Texas Democratic Party chairman Gilberto Hinojosa went after Guillen for the switch, attacking the newly minted Republican for "prioritizing holding onto his job rather than standing up for Texans."
"We’re disappointed to see him selling his soul and selling out South Texans, but we’re excited to clear the field for a real Democrat to run — one we can count on to show up for our families and put Texans first," Hinojosa said. "Texas Democrats will keep standing up for our values and fighting to fix the biggest problems facing Texas families — whether it’s fixing our disaster-prone power grid, getting more people healthcare, or making sure working Texans have a real chance to get ahead."
"That’s clearly not a priority for Rep. Guillen," he added. "Don’t let the door hit you on the way out."
The ongoing border crisis has been a thorn in the Biden administration’s side — a thorn that Biden and Vice President Harris, who was tapped earlier this year to oversee the border crisis, have largely ignored since taking office.
Harris quipped earlier this year that she had not been to Europe when reminded by NBC's Lester Holt that she had not been to the southern border yet.
Harris traveled to France last week, where she was panned for putting on a French accent while touring a laboratory in Paris. She had previously traveled to El Paso, Texas — a city along the border but not near the Rio Grande Valley, the epicenter of the crisis — to assess the border situation.
The effects of the border crisis may also boost the already growing Hispanic vote moving toward the Republican Party.
Houston Keene is a reporter for Fox News Digital. You can find him on Twitter at @HoustonKeene.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Defense attorney Brian Claypool joins ‘CAVUTO Live’ to provide insight into the Kyle Rittenhouse case. 
The lead prosecutor in the murder case against 18-year-old Kyle Rittenhouse is assistant district attorney in the Kenosha County District Attorney's Office Thomas Binger.
Binger has worked for the Kenosha County District Attorney’s Office for six years and ran unsuccessfully for the position of district attorney in Racine County, to the north of Kenosha, in 2016.
RITTENHOUSE FATE 'IN THE HANDS OF THE JURY,' NOT BIDEN, MEDIA, ATHLETES: MOTHER

      KENOSHA, WISCONSIN - NOVEMBER 11: Assistant District Attorney Thomas Binger walks into the courtroom for the start of the day during Kyle Rittenhouse's trail at the Kenosha County Courthouse  on November 11, 2021 in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Rittenhouse is accused of shooting three demonstrators, killing two of them, during a night of unrest that erupted in Kenosha after a police officer shot Jacob Blake seven times in the back while being arrested in August 2020. Rittenhouse, from Antioch, Illinois, was 17 at the time of the shooting and armed with an assault rifle. He faces counts of felony homicide and felony attempted homicide. (Photo by Sean Krajacic-Pool/Getty Images)
      (Sean Krajacic-Pool/Getty Images)
"In the last two years as a prosecutor, I have won 13 jury trials. I have convicted murderers, rapists, child molesters, drug dealers, drunk drivers, home-invading burglars and men who abuse women," Binger said during the failed campaign.
Binger graduated from the University of Michigan Law School in 1996 and joined the Milwaukee County District Attorney’s Office in 1999.
After rising to the rank of assistant district attorney, Binger moved on to serve as the director of litigation at the DeMark, Kolbe, and Brodek law firm in 2005 until he joined the Kenosha County District Attorney’s Office in 2014.

      Wendy Rittenhouse, left, talks to her son Kyle Rittenhouse, before the start of his trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wis., on Wednesday, Nov. 3, 2021.  (Mark Hertzberg/Pool Photo via AP)
      (Mark Hertzberg/Pool Photo via AP)
KYLE RITTENHOUSE DEFENSE, PROSECUTION SPAR OVER POTENTIAL ADDITION OF LESSER CHARGES: LIVE UPDATES
Binger is married to mental health counselor Nicole Gustafson-Binger and the couple has three children.
Binger and Judge Bruce Schroeder have clashed multiple times during the Rittenhouse case including when the judge scolded Binger after he asked Rittenhouse whether he knew the use of deadly force can not be used to protect property. Schroeder accused Binger of trying to improperly introduce testimony that he said earlier he wasn't inclined to include. 
"I was astonished when you began your examination by commenting on the defendant’s post-arrest silence. That's basic law. It's been basic law in this country for 40 years, 50 years. I have no idea why you would do something like that," Schroeder told Binger with the jury out of the courtroom. "You know very well that an attorney can't go into these types of areas when the judge has already ruled without asking outside the presence of the jury to do so. So don't give me that. That's number one."

      Kyle Rittenhouse talks about how Gaige Grosskreutz was holding his gun when Rittenhouse shot him on Aug. 25, 2020, while testifying during his trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wisconsin, November 10, 2021. 
      (Sean Krajacic/Pool via REUTERS TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY)
"Number two. This is propensity evidence. I said at the time that I made my ruling and I'll repeat again now for you," the judge added. "I see no similarity between talking about wishing you had your AR gun, which you don't have, so that you can take … fire fire rounds with these thought-to-be shoplifters and the incidence in these cases."
Defense attorneys representing Rittenhouse, who is accused of fatally shooting two men and wounding a third in Kenosha, Wisconsin, rested its case on Thursday in the divisive murder trial, setting the stage for closing arguments early next week.
Fox News’ Louis Casiano contributed to this report
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter @andymarkmiller and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Rep. Nicole Malliotakis, R-N.Y., discusses why she voted for the $1.2 million infrastructure bill and being among 13 Republicans that supported it.
After much backlash from fellow House Republicans, Rep. Nicole Malliotakis, R-N.Y., on Tuesday defended her decision to vote for the $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill. 
Malliotakis told Fox News there is "incredibly important" infrastructure in the measure.
"I read this bill and it is cover to cover infrastructure," she said on "America's Newsroom." 
Malliotakis said $350 billion is going to "traditional infrastructure" such as roads, highways, and $550 billion is allocated to other "basic infrastructure needs."
"The other 550 billion is for ports, airports, seaports, ferry systems, coastal resiliency projects like the east shore sea wall. That is so important to my district," she added.
"Sewer systems, which is so incredibly so important following [Hurricane Ida], the damage that took place in New York City. Upgrading our subway signals to a communication-based train control we’re still relying on pre-World War II equipment in some subways," Malliotakis explained. "So for an aging city like New York City, this bill was incredibly important."
GOP LAWMAKERS BLAST 'RINOS' AFTER HOUSE PASSES $1.2T INFRASTRUCTURE BILL: 'TIME TO NAME NAMES'
House Republicans opposing the Democrats' $1 trillion infrastructure package reacted swiftly late Friday after their colleagues across the aisle – aided by 13 members of the GOP – passed the legislation. 
The bipartisan bill’s passage was viewed as a win for the Biden administration and ended weeks of deadlock between moderate and progressive Democrats. 
Some Republicans who voted "no" called the bill "communist" or "socialist" and decried their GOP colleagues who voted with Democrats. 
"Republicans who voted for the Democrats’ socialist spending bill are the very reason why Americans don’t trust Congress," Rep. Andy Biggs, R-Ariz., chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, tweeted. 
Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo., called the bill "garbage" and argued that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi couldn't get it passed without help from the 13 Republicans. The vote was 228-206, with six Democrats, all progressives, voting against it. 
Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, R-Ga., listed the names of the 13 Republicans who, in her words, "handed over their voting cards to Nancy Pelosi to pass Joe Biden’s Communist takeover of America via so-called infrastructure." 
Many of the Republicans who voted in favor of the legislation said the benefits of the bill for the individual states they represent would outweigh its massive price tag. 
Six members of the "Squad" voted against the bill, including Democratic Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortex of New York, Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Cori Bush of Missouri and Jamaal Brown of New York.
The bill, which calls for funding for physical infrastructure projects such as roads, bridges, water pipes and broadband internet, will now advance to President Biden’s desk for final approval. Senators already voted 69-30 to approve the legislation in August.
Malliotakis doubled down, saying that the reality is that the infrastructure in the bill is the type of investment that people actually pay taxes for. The congresswoman added that it has the "basic infrastructure needs" taxpayers expect from the government, but has been "neglected for decades."
"As you reported earlier I believe we significantly took away the leverage from the socialist squad. It is why AOC and the others voted against it," Malliotakis told host Dana Perino. 
"They knew if the true infrastructure bill passed the spotlight would go onto their social spending bill that includes the I.R.S. agents, amnesty, giveaways to those in the country illegally, the taxes, vaccine mandates, and penalties. All of that that we remain opposed to and we’re are going to fight tooth and nail with the moderate Democrats to stop."
Malliotakis responded to the criticisms against her support of the bill from her GOP colleagues, saying a lot of people are confused with the fact that there are "two different bills." She said the infrastructure bill is the bipartisan bill that is "cover to cover infrastructure." Even former President Trump blasted the GOP House Representatives who voted for the bill.
"The other bill is the social spending bill that all of us are opposed to," she said. "I give President Trump credit for being the first to invest in infrastructure. He also wanted to spend $1 trillion in America’s infrastructure. He understood how important it is to our vitality, to our economy, to keep up with economic growth and pace. This is something that I have said has been neglected for decades. We’re opposed to the I.R.S. Agents and the illegal immigrants and amnesty and all the other stuff AOC is pushing but I believe we’ve taken away their leverage."
"This spending bill will either continue to be reduced because remember, it started with $3.5 trillion to $1.7 trillion," Malliotakis continued. "They took out the amnesty provision but there are still stuff for illegal immigrants that we have to continue to fight. I will work with my colleagues to do that. I think just the fact that they are crying about it just tells you that they are the losers here."
Fox News' Brie Stimson contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News hosts Dana Perino and Bill Hemmer discuss Democratic Senator Manchin being harassed by environmental activists.
Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia came out in opposition to President Biden’s nominee to lead the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) over the candidate’s ties to the pharmaceutical industry amid the opioid crisis.
Manchin released a statement on Friday opposing Biden’s FDA nominee, Robert Califf, who led the agency at the tail end of the Obama administration.
The moderate Democrat from West Virginia said that Califf’s nomination "makes no sense" amid the opioid epidemic still ravaging America and wreaking "havoc on families across this country with no end in sight."

      Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., delivers remarks to reporters at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., Nov. 1, 2021.
      (REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst)
BIDEN EXPECTED TO ANNOUNCE ROBERT CALIFF TO LEAD FDA, BRINGING BACK OBAMA-ERA OFFICIAL
The senator also blasted the nominee for his ties to the pharmaceutical industry, which has been credited by many with playing a major role in exacerbating the opioid epidemic.
"2020 was the deadliest year on record for drug related overdose deaths, with 1,386 and nearly 95,000 Americans dying from a drug-related overdose," Manchin said. "I have made it abundantly clear that correcting the culture at the FDA is critical to changing the tide of the opioid epidemic."
"Instead, Dr. Califf’s nomination and his significant ties to the pharmaceutical industry take us backwards not forward," the West Virginia Democrat continued. "His nomination is an insult to the many families and individuals who have had their lives changed forever as a result of addiction."
Manchin said he "could not support" Califf’s nomination just as he was opposed to the former commissioner’s previous 2016 nomination and called on the Biden administration to put up a nominee "that understands the gravity of the prescription drug epidemic" as well as the FDA’s role "in fighting back against the greed of the pharmaceutical industry."
"Championing the needs of our nation’s public health should be their No. 1 priority," Manchin concluded.

      Dr. Robert Califf awaits the start of his nomination hearing before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee on Nov. 17, 2015, in Washington, D.C. 
      (Win McNamee/Getty Images)
Biden is expected to announce Califf’s nomination later on Friday, almost 10 months into the president’s term.
Because acting commissioners may only serve for a certain amount of time, Biden was nearing the deadline for when he would be forced to name a replacement for acting FDA Commissioner Janet Woodcock. She's held the position since Biden was inaugurated. 
"Dr. Robert Califf is one of the most experienced clinical trialists in the country, and has the experience and expertise to lead the Food and Drug Administration during a critical time in our nation’s fight to put an end to the coronavirus pandemic," Biden said in a statement Friday announcing the nomination.
"As the FDA considers many consequential decisions around vaccine approvals and more, it is mission critical that we have a steady, independent hand to guide the FDA. I am confident Dr. Califf will ensure that the FDA continues its science and data driven decision-making. Dr. Califf had strong bipartisan support in the Senate in 2016, and I urge the Senate to swiftly confirm Dr. Califf so he can continue the important work being done at this critical moment."
The White House did not provide comment on Manchin’s opposition to Califf’s nomination.
Fox News’ Tyler Olson contributed reporting.
Houston Keene is a reporter for Fox News Digital. You can find him on Twitter at @HoustonKeene.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops did not mention President Biden by name in a document they passed Wednesday regarding Communion.
Following calls to deny Communion to Biden, who is Catholic, because of his public position on abortion, the bishops instead used much more general language in a document on the Eucharist.
BIDEN SAYS POPE FRANCIS TOLD HIM TO CONTINUE RECEIVING COMMUNION, AMID SCRUTINY OVER PRO-ABORTION POLICIES
"Lay people who exercise some form of public authority have a special responsibility to embody Church teaching in their service to the common good," the document said, staying away from direct references to abortion, Biden or any other individual officials.

      President Biden exchanges gifts with Pope Francis as they meet at the Vatican on Oct. 29, 2021.
      (Vatican Media via AP)
The document was passed at the USCCB's Fall General Assembly, taking place this week in Baltimore. 
In June, the document was expected to include a specific admonition to Catholic politicians and other public figures who disobey church teaching on abortion and other core doctrinal issues. 
WHITE HOUSE ACKNOWLEDGES BIDEN AND POPE ON DIFFERENT PAGE ON ABORTION
Biden, who attends Mass regularly, says he personally opposes abortion but doesn't think he should impose that position on Americans who feel otherwise. He's taken several executive actions during his presidency that were hailed by abortion rights advocates.

      Joe and Jill Biden attend Mass at the Cathedral of St. Matthew the Apostle during Inauguration Day ceremonies on Jan. 20, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)
      
Following a meeting with the pope in late October, Biden reported that the pope said he should continue to receive Communion.
The president said the pope blessed his rosary, and added that they discussed fighting climate change as part of his Build Back Better agenda. 
"We just talked about the fact that he was happy I'm a good Catholic," Biden said. "And I should keep receiving Communion." 

      Bishop Manuel Cruz, front left, of the Archdiocese of Newark, New Jersey, during a morning prayer at the Fall General Assembly of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 2021, in Baltimore.
      (AP Photo/Julio Cortez)
Biden said the pope did not give him Communion during the meeting. 
Fox News' Monica Guy, Marisa Schultz and Brooke Singman contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
The ‘Watters’ World’ host explains how recent Democratic election losses are a harbinger of trouble for the woke left.
Jesse Watters said Americans are "fed up" with Democrats Saturday on "Watters' World," and predicted that Tuesday's "red wave" was "just the beginning."
JESSE WATTERS: Americans are fed up with the Democrats. We won’t stand by while liberals destroy the country. So give yourselves a round of applause. Here’s what the red wave looks like: Virginia went red just a year after Biden won by 10. A republican nearly toppled the New Jersey governor, a state Biden won by 16. A rare red wave hit Long Island, too, and Minneapolis voted against dismantling the police department. 
The law and order candidate in Seattle – remember CHAZ, or whatever it was called – he beat the pants off the radical left DA there. And a write-in beat the socialist in Buffalo. Common sense had a very big week.
What does this all mean? 
…
On the day of the reckoning, a reporter asked Joe Biden if he took any responsibility for Democrats getting shellacked. Joe said no, the country is just confused. 
We aren’t confused. The American people know exactly what’s going on, and we don’t like it. Biden’s agenda isn’t our agenda. We want lower prices, cheaper gas, stronger borders. But Biden keeps serving us vax mandates and places to plug in our electric cars. We don’t even drive electric cars. 
…
So facing a rebuke from voters and watching a red wave form, do they listen to voters and pump the brakes on Biden's trillions, or do they swing for the left-field fence, knowing they're going to get pancaked next November anyway? So the Democrats are divided in the media and in Congress. And after making our lives more expensive, more dangerous, more divisive, and starting a culture war they can't win, they're about to hear an even louder roar from the American people next year. This is only the beginning. 
WATCH JESSE WATTERS' FULL MONOLOGUE HERE: 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wisc., argued low-income families and retirees are most affected by rising inflation.
White House Chief of Staff Ronald Klain said Sunday that the Democrats should "take pride" in winning deep blue areas like New Jersey and New York City after suffering a devastating loss to Republicans in the Virginia gubernatorial race last week. 
During an interview with NBC News’ Chuck Todd, Klain said Terry McAuliffe’s loss to Republican Gov.-elect Glenn Youngkin in Virginia on Tuesday was "painful" but that the silver lining is in areas like New York City, where Democrat Eric Adams won the mayoral race, and New Jersey, where voters reelected incumbent Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy.
VP KAMALA HARRIS TOUTS 'GREAT WINS' IN DEEP BLUE AREAS AFTER BAD NIGHT FOR DEMOCRATS

      WASHINGTON, DC - JUNE 30: White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain attends an event with governors of western states and members of the Biden administration cabinet June 30, 2021 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
      
"Terry McAuliffe is an old friend of mine. So sad to see him lose the Virginia legislature," Klain said. "But it’s also worth noting, on Tuesday night, we did get Governor Murphy, the first Democrat in 44 years to get re-elected in New Jersey. We held on to the mayorship in New York, Eric Adams, is a great new leader for our party. We lost the mayorship of New York in 2009, the last time we had a new democratic president.
"We had a lot of great, exciting Democrats elected around the country," he continued. "The first woman, the first person of color elected mayor of Boston. We had Shontel Brown elected to the U.S. House in Ohio. So we definitely suffered some losses on Tuesday, no question about it. We have to learn from that, we have to do better from that. But I also think we had wins on Tuesday and we can take pride in that, too."

      WASHINGTON, DC - MARCH 24: White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain joins a meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden, members of his cabinet and immigration advisors in the State Dining Room on March 24, 2021 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
      
Klain was referring to Michelle Wu, who is a progressive, though her position as mayor is nonpartisan. 
Brown was elected to represent Ohio’s 11th Congressional District, which encompasses most of Cleveland and much of Akron and is considered the state’s most Democratic district.
Klain said the Democrats’ loss in Virginia was a "message" sent by voters who want to see more action on Capitol Hill.
"They wanted to see more action in Washington, they wanted to see things move more quickly, and three days later Congress responded by passing the president's infrastructure bill," he said.

      Ron Klain, former White House Ebola response coordinator, speaks during a House Homeland Security Subcommittee hearing in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Tuesday, March 10, 2020. (Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
      
Klain's comments mirrored that of Vice President Kamala Harris, who said Democrats had some "great wins" Tuesday.
"We have Eric Adams in New York. In Ohio, we had Mrs. Brown, Shontel Brown, a great win and what I think will be a great addition to the United States Congress," said Harris, who campaigned for McCauliffe in the lead-up to Tuesday's election.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Rittenhouse Spokesperson: Media doesn’t want to know the facts because then they have to say the truth.
A spokesperson for Kyle Rittenhouse discussed the seventh day of the nationally-watched homicide trial in which the defendant took the stand and testified.
David Hancock slammed President Joe Biden on "The Ingraham Angle" Tuesday evening for casting Rittenhouse as a White supremacist in a tweet one year ago. "Don't forget the candidate for the U.S. president himself last year prior to the election called Kyle Rittenhouse a White supremacist. Joe Biden called him a White supremacist; that is appalling. I can't even gauge how wrong that is."
The spokesperson also blasted the media for getting the facts wrong about the Rittenhouse case. 
"The media has been absolutely irresponsible and purely abhorrent with this entire situation. They are parroting the same false information time after time. They even do it to this day. No, he didn’t cross state lines with a weapon. That was known last year. Apparently, the media doesn’t care for accurate information. It’s appalling," he said. "It’s almost as if they don’t want to know the facts. Then they will have to stay the truth."
"I didn't do anything wrong. I defended myself," Rittenhouse said while on the stand. "I did what I had to do to stop the person who was attacking me."

      KENOSHA, WISCONSIN - NOVEMBER 10: Kyle Rittenhouse becomes emotional as he testifies during his trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse on November 10, 2021 (Photo by Mark Hertzberg-Pool/Getty Images)
      
JESSE WATTERS ON KYLE RITTENHOUSE TRIAL PROSECUTION AND LIBERAL MEDIA REACTION: 'THEY WANT TO SCALP THIS KID'
Rittenhouse gave a detailed account of the night under cross-examination Tuesday of the night of Aug. 25, 2020, when he crossed state lines into Kenosha, Wisconsin amid rioting. 
Hancock said Rittenhouse remained "confident" about his testimony.
Rittenhouse always planned to take the stand, according to the Hancock. "He has a story and the facts are entirely in his camp. The truth is that in his camp and you can't go wrong when every single fact lines up in your camp, right? So he wanted to get on the stand and he wanted that. And I thought he did a fantastic job."

      A city truck is on fire outside the Kenosha County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wisconsin, U.S., during riots on August 23, 2020 following the police shooting of Jacob Blake Mike De Sisti/Milwaukee Journal Sentinel via USA TODAY via REUTERS 
      ( Mike De Sisti/Milwaukee Journal Sentinel via USA TODAY via REUTERS )
Rittenhouse was charged with a slew of charges including two counts of homicide for shooting Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, with an AR-15 during the August 2020 protests and riots that erupted after police shot Jacob Blake, leaving him paralyzed from the waist down. The third person Rittenhouse shot, Gaige Grosskreutz, survived and testified Monday.
Rittenhouse was also charged with possessing a weapon by a person under 18, and multiple counts of reckless endangerment.KYLE RITTENHOUSE: PROSECUTORS COULD BE BARRED FROM RE-TRYING DEFENDANT: LIVE UPDATES
The judge admonished the prosecution on multiple occasions, including for raising the fact that Rittenhouse chose to remain silent after he was charged. The Fifth Amendment protects those accused of crimes from incriminating themselves – they do not have to reveal any information to police, prosecution, or a judge.

      KENOSHA, WISCONSIN - NOVEMBER 10:  Judge Bruce Schroeder, reprimands Assistant District Attorney Thomas Binger in his conduct in line of questioning while cross-examining Kyle Rittenhouse on November 10, 2021 in Kenosha, Wisconsin. (Photo by Sean Krajacic-Pool/Getty Images)
      (Sean Krajacic-Pool/Getty Images)
Judge Bruce Schroeder said he was "astonished" when prosecutor Thomas Binger began his examination of Rittenhouse "by commenting on the defendant's post-arrest silence." 
Binger had said, "Since Aug. 25 2020 this is the first time you have told your story … I'm making the point that after hearing everything in the case now he's tailoring his story to what has already been introduced."
"This is a very grave constitutional violation for you to talk about the defendant's silence," the judge said. 
"That was just an utter embarrassment for the prosecution," Hancock said. "It is clear that this district attorney's office should have never brought charges. I mean, they did [bring charges] without any meaningful investigation and I think what the nation has learned was the state still doesn't know what version of events they want to go with."
When asked about how Rittenhouse was doing the spokesperson said, "He is doing okay; he is an unbelievably strong young man. He is ready to get this over with. He got a chance to finally say his story today. I thought he did a fantastic job. We are all just so proud of him. He is ready to move to the next chapter of this life and put this insanity behind him."
Hannah Grossman is an Associate Editor at Fox News. Follow her on Twitter at @GrossmanHannah
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., offers reaction and analysis on 'Fox News Primetime'
A whistleblower in the Biden administration came forward Tuesday to claim that Attorney General Merrick Garland lied to Congress when he testified in October that the FBI isn't targeting parents protesting school board meetings. In response, Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., called for Garland to return to Capitol Hill to answer for the allegations.
Hawley told "Fox News Primetime" Tuesday that the whistleblower's allegations show "parents are getting the domestic terrorist treatment" from the Biden administration.

      FBI Director Christopher Wray is sworn in before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, March 2, 2021. (Graeme Jennings/Pool via AP)
      (AP)
"Garland said 'oh, no, we would never treat them like domestic terrorists' – of course that’s what left wing groups wanted. Garland said ‘we are not going to do that’ – [but] now we know the counter-terrorism division has been tracking parents," Hawley said. 
Garland previously testified that the Department of Justice "supports and defends the First Amendment right of parents to complain as vociferously as they wish about the education of their children about the curriculum taught in the schools. That is not what the memorandum is about at all."
"I can’t imagine any circumstance in which the patriot act would be used in the circumstances of parents complaining about their children nor can I imagine a circumstance where they would be labeled as domestic terrorism," the attorney general continued.
Hawley said he read the leaked email relative to the allegation that showed officials "drawing up lists of crimes" they could potentially charge parents with.
"Why is the Patriot Act being used against parents?" he asked, referring to the 2001 counter-terror law signed by President Bush in the wake of 9/11 terror attacks.

      Attorney General Merrick Garland testifies before a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing examining the Department of Justice on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 2021. (Tasos Katopodis/Pool via AP)
      (Tasos Katopodis/Pool via AP)
Host Jesse Watters said leaked emails show that Wray's agency created a "threat tag" to track school board incidents and parents themselves.
"We ask that your offices apply the threat tag to investigations of threats specifically directed at school board administrators, board members, teachers and staff," Watters read from one email.
CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Hawley said that Garland "at the very least" must be called back to the Senate Judiciary Committee and explain himself, while Watters noted that the media and Democrats seem to otherwise treat whistleblowers as "heroes."
"I would like to see how this whistleblower gets treated," he said.
Later Tuesday, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., further criticized Garland, saying in a statement that "Biden’s Department of Justice is using FBI criminal and counterterrorism resources to target parents."
"The National School Board Association has since apologized for its letter, going as far as saying they 'regret' sending it.  To date, more than half of the country’s state school board associations have already distanced themselves from the national group. But despite the facts, Attorney General Garland has continued his investigations of parents at school board meetings."
"This is further proof that we have a President in the White House who is more interested in going after our own citizens, including concerned parents, than he is in going after actual threats," the Bakersfield lawmaker continued, adding that every American should be "alarmed" by the precedent set by Garland.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
China’s rich have changed their focus from making money to keeping it as President Xi Jinping introduces new measures to redistribute wealth among a swell of support. 
The wealthy class in China has periodically felt the need to hide money from the government, but the recent "common prosperity" drive has caused a minor panic. The drive aims to narrow China’s wealth gap, but the language and practice of the proposed laws remain vague. 
Beijing has launched anti-monopoly and data security crackdowns to tighten its control over internet giants, including e-commerce platform Alibaba Group and games and social media operator Tencent Holdings Ltd., which looked too big and potentially independent.

      Xi Jinping, China's president, delivers a speech after arriving at Macau International Airport in Macau, China, on Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. President Xi is expected to use a visit marking 20 years of Chinese rule over Macau this week to send a message to the protest-stricken financial hub some 50 kilometers (30 miles) to the east: work with us and get rich. Photographer: Justin Chin/Bloomberg via Getty Images
      
"Common prosperity" is a phrase Mao Zedong used in the 1950s and repeated by Deng Xiaoping in the 1980s. 
ROBERT KAUFMAN: HYPOCRISY EXHIBITED BY AMERICA'S ELITS ON CHINA THREATENS OUR FREEDOMS
The government regularly adopts policies that spook the ultra-rich: Some new laws around 2012 famously prompted the wealthy citizens of China to buy art as a means of laundering their money overseas. 

(Getty Images)
Border closures because of the pandemic have made moving money out of the country a more difficult process, and the government banned the trading of crypto – a popular method for moving money around. 
CHINA MOCKS ‘POWERLESS’ BIDEN OVER CLIMATE SUMMIT ‘APOLOGY’
The new drive has therefore prompted new measures to protect wealth.
"A few years ago, people were only concerned about how to invest," Echo Zhao, a partner who advises for Shanghai SF Law Firm, told Bloomberg. "Now, they’re no longer eager to take chances."
Keeping a low profile is the key: The ultra-rich have started to delete social media and disengage from it as well as refusing to conduct interviews. Doing so prevents their words from being used against them and interpreted as possibly anti-government. 
SEN. COTTON: ‘IT’S IMPERATIVE' BIDEN MODERNIZES US NUCLEAR FORCES WHILE CHINA GROWS NUCLEAR ARSENAL
Additionally, the need to move money within the country and to do so legally has seen the adoption of three primary methods: invest more in off-shore trusts; diversify holdings into green technology and foreign companies; and hire underground money changers to move money when necessary. 
Each of these new approaches provides its own challenges as they are either new to China or face complications due to laws established by the government.
For example, a trust might seem an attractive way to protect against any possible inheritance tax the government might introduce, but without any idea of what laws might be introduced over the management of trusts themselves, advisors have told clients to retain as little control over assets as possible. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
In media news today, Kamala Harris' spokeswoman hits back at CNN, an MSNBC anchor gets slammed on Twitter for arguing Americans can afford more expensive groceries, and Axios warns about a 'reckoning' on news outlets that touted the Steele dossier
Russia dismissed U.S. concerns that astronauts on the International Space Station were threatened by a missile strike that blew up a Russian satellite this week.  
"For us, the main priority has been and remains to ensure the unconditional safety of the crew," Russia's Roscosmos space agency said in a statement, AFP reported. 
Roscosmos added that the "automated warning system for dangerous situations" was continuing "to monitor the situation in order to prevent and counter all possible threats to the safety of the International Space Station and its crew."
US CONDEMNS RUSSIA FOR BLOWING UP OWN SATELLITE AND CREATING SPACE DEBRIS
The agency did not deny there was a missile strike. 

      In this photo provided by Roscosmos Space Agency Press Service, the Nauka module is seen prior to docking with the International Space Station on Thursday, July 29, 2021. Russia's long-delayed lab module successfully docked with the International Space Station on Thursday, eight days after it was launched from the Russian space launch facility in Baikonur, Kazakhstan. The 20-metric-ton (22-ton) Nauka module, also called the Multipurpose Laboratory Module, docked with the orbiting outpost after a long journey and a series of manoeuvres. (Roscosmos Space Agency Press Service photo via AP)
      (Roscosmos Space Agency Press Service photo via AP)
Russia conducted an anti-satellite test on Monday, which produced thousands of pieces of space debris, U.S. officials confirmed in their condemnation of the strike. 
"Earlier today, the Russian Federation recklessly conducted a destructive satellite test of a direct ascent anti-satellite missile against one of its own satellites," U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price said at a briefing Monday.
"The test has so far generated over 1,500 pieces of trackable orbital debris and hundreds of thousands of pieces of smaller orbital debris that now threaten the interests of all nations."
U.S. Secretary of State Anthony Blinken slammed the "dangerous and irresponsible test," saying the orbital debris will continue threatening satellites and activities on the ISS.

      The International Space Station - file photo.
      (NASA)
"The Russian Federation recklessly conducted a destructive test of a direct-ascent anti-satellite missile against one of its own satellites," Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement.
RUSSIA SHOOTS DOWN SATELLITE IN ‘DEBRIS-GENERATING EVENT’: US SPACE COMMAND
NASA chief Bill Nelson added that he was "outraged" by the "irresponsible and destabilizing action."
Four Americans, a German and two Russians are currently on the ISS. The astronauts were woken up and told to take shelter in their return ships during the strike. 

      Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during a news conference after his meeting with U.S President Joe Biden at the 'Villa la Grange' in Geneva, Switzerland in Geneva, Switzerland, Wednesday, June 16, 2021. (AP Photo/Alexander Zemlianichenko, Pool)
      
The target of the missile was Cosmos 1408, a defunct 1982 Soviet signals intelligence satellite. Anti-satellite weapons are possessed by only a few nations, with India being the last country to carry out a test in 2019, AFP reported. 
Deputy chairman of the Russian lower house of parliament's defense committee, Yury Shvytkin, said the United States’ accusations did not "correspond to reality." 
"Russia is not engaged in the militarization of space," Shvytkin said, according to the Interfax news agency.
"We have been and are against the militarization of space."
But Russian military analyst Pavel Felgenhauer added in a comment to AFP that it has "long been known that we have anti-missile and anti-space weapons and that we are deploying them." 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
CDC director Dr. Rochelle Walensky provides the latest update in the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.
EXCLUSIVE: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Rochelle Walensky, in an exclusive Q&A with Fox News, said she "strongly" encourages those who have not yet received a COVID-19 vaccine do so, saying vaccination "continues to be the best way to protect ourselves, our families and our communities from COVID-19," while encouraging those who are eligible to receive a vaccine booster to maintain "strong protection." 
The Food and Drug Administration and the CDC have authorized and recommended the use of booster shots of Pfizer-BioNtech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines for certain groups. 
The FDA also signed off on "mixing and matching" of vaccines, which allows, for example, some individuals who received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine initially to choose to receive a booster shot of either Pfizer of Moderna. 
And earlier this month the FDA and CDC authorized and recommended doses of the Pfizer vaccine for children between the ages of 5 and 11. 
HUME: WHITE HOUSE URGING VACCINE MANDATE IN VIOLATION OF COURT STAY IS ‘POLITICAL DYNAMITE’
Walensky broke down what you need to know: 
Walensky: For those who received a Johnson & Johnson vaccine, all people 18 and older who were vaccinated 2 or more months ago are eligible for a booster shot. For those who received the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, there are several groups of people who are eligible for a booster shot 6 months or more after their primary series. These groups include those who are 65 years and older, 18 years and older who have underlying medical conditions, 18 and older who live in long-term care settings, as well as those 18 and older who live or work in high-risk settings. If you’re 6 months after your second Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, and are in one of these groups you are eligible for a booster." 
Walenksy: Vaccination continues to be the best way to protect ourselves, our families, and our communities from COVID-19. I cannot emphasize the importance of vaccination enough. I strongly recommend those who are eligible to receive a booster based on CDC recommendations get one.
PFIZER, BIONTECH ASK FDA TO AUTHORIZE COVID-19 BOOSTERS FOR ALL ADULTS
Walenksy: The CDC Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices has among its members world-renowned scientists and medical professionals. As new data and science has emerged throughout this pandemic, this committee has continually met to put forward their individual and collective expertise and thoroughly discuss scientific evidence. I am confident in the advice and counsel they provide to the agency on matters related to the use of approved vaccines.

      CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky speaks to the press after visiting the Hynes Convention Center FEMA Mass Vaccination Site on March 30, 2021, in Boston, Massachusetts. 
      (Erin Clark-Pool/Getty Images)
Walensky: Some people may have a preference for the vaccine type that they originally received, because they did well with their initial series, while some may desire another. FDA’s authorizations and CDC’s recommendations allow for mix and match between the primary vaccine series and the booster shot. The most important aspect is receiving the strong protection the vaccines offer.
Walensky: All three COVID-19 vaccines authorized in the United States are safe. They are all proven to be highly effective in reducing the risk of severe disease, hospitalization, and death. If you have not yet been vaccinated, I strongly encourage you to consider the benefits of receiving a COVID-19 vaccine and to get vaccinated– not just for yourself, but also for the health and safety of your children, family, and community.
REGENERON REPORTS COVID-19 ANTIBODY COCKTAIL REDUCED INFECTION RISK BY 82% FOR 8 MONTHS — SO FAR
For those who are still unsure about getting vaccinated talk to a health professional you trust—ask question of your own doctor, pharmacist, or vaccinators in your community to get the information you need.
Walensky: Our highest priority is to ensure that children can have a safe, in person school year this year. It is proven that masks in schools work to protect our children, to keep them and their school communities safe, and to keep them in school for in-person learning, especially as large numbers of children remain unvaccinated. As we continue to vaccinate more children and adults, schools should continue to utilize the prevention measures that we know keep children safe, such as wearing masks in schools and indoor spaces, avoiding crowds and poorly ventilated spaces, and regularly washing hands. We will continue to follow evolving science, vaccination status and case rates as we provide recommendations to keep our schools safe.
Walensky: We are collaborating across the whole of government and across the scientific and medical community to stay ahead of the virus and move us forward on our path out of this pandemic – to stop the spread of infection, to keep people out of the hospital, and to save as many lives as possible.
Stay up-to-date on the biggest health and wellness news with our weekly recap.
Subscribed
Fox News' Lucas Tomlinson has more as rising prices put pressure on Biden
Former Democratic Senator Chris Dodd appeared to cast doubt on the likelihood of President Biden running for re-election in 2024. 
"I’m hoping the president runs for re-election," Dodd, who served in the Senate along with Biden for 28 years and remains a close friend, told the New York Times this week. "But for whatever reason that might not be the case, it’s hard to believe there would be a short list without Kamala’s name on it. She’s the vice president of the United States."

      WASHINGTON, DC - MAY 02: Chairman and CEO of the Motion Picture Association of America Chris Dodd and U.S Vice President Joe Biden speak during the 2nd Annual Creativity Conference presented by the Motion Picture Association of America at The Newseum on May 2, 2014 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Kris Connor/Getty Images)
      
DOJ SAYS IT WILL 'VIGOROUSLY DEFEND' BIDEN OSHA COVID-19 VACCINE MANDATE IN COURT
A recent USA Today/Suffolk University survey showed a 37.8% approval rating for Biden with a 59% disapproval – more than 21 points underwater. Forty-six percent of those included in the survey said Biden has done a worse job than expected, and 64% said they don't want Biden to run for reelection. 
Harris has just a 27.8% approval rating with 51.2% disapproving of her performance in office, according to USA Today/Suffolk University. That is more than 23 percentage points underwater. 
BIDEN SAYS BELARUS-POLAND BORDER CRISIS IS OF ‘GREAT CONCERN’ AS MIGRANT SITUATION WORSENS
Congressional Democrats, meanwhile, may face an uphill battle to preserve their razor-thin majorities unless something significant changes before Election Day on Nov. 8, 2022. The USA Today/Suffolk University poll gives Republicans a 46%-to-38% advantage on a generic congressional ballot. 

      U.S. President Joe Biden departs for Camp David for the weekend from the White House in Washington, U.S., November 12, 2021. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque
      
Biden, who was the oldest president to ever take the presidential oath, will turn 79 later this month and said earlier this year that he plans to run for reelection.
"My plan is to run for reelection. That’s my expectation," Biden told reporters in March. 
He later pushed back against a reporter’s suggestion that his 2024 plans were definite.

      President Biden speaks about the bipartisan infrastructure bill in the State Dinning Room of the White House, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
      (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
"I said, ‘That is my expectation,’" Biden said. "I’m a great respecter of fate. I’ve never been able to plan four-and-a-half, three-and-a-half years ahead for certain."
Dodd did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Fox News.
Fox News’ Tyler Olson and the Associated Press contributed to this report
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter @andymarkmiller and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
The House of Representatives may vote Thursday on President Biden's $1.75 trillion reconciliation spending bill, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office is expected to release a cost estimate for the Build Back Better Act Thursday afternoon.
Covered by: Thomas Barrabi and Fox News
Fast, 24/7 alerts delivered to your inbox daily. Subscribe to be in the know of the most important moments around the world.
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy.
incoming update…
Coverage for this event has ended.
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer informed lawmakers the House will adjourn at the conclusion of GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy's floor speech. McCarthy is nearly four hours into a scathing address on President Biden's spending bill.
The House will reconvene at 8 a.m. Friday and vote on the Build Back Better Act.

In this image from House Television, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy of Calif., speaks on the House floor during debate on the Democrats' expansive social and environment bill at the U.S. Capitol on Thursday, Nov. 18, 2021, in Washington. (House Television via AP)

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office issued a release fact-checking several remarks from GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy's ongoing floor speech.
"During this evening’s temper tantrum, Minority Leader McCarthy did everything he could to avoid talking about the deficit reducing, inflation crushing Build Back Better Act.  But he did make unhinged claims about what the American people “don’t want and need," the release said.
McCarthy has been speaking for about two hours, delaying a vote on President Biden's spending bill in the process.
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., has been speaking on the House floor for more than one hour, criticizing nearly every element of President Biden's social spending bill and broader policy agenda.
House lawmakers are expected to proceed with a vote series, including a vote on the bill itself, once McCarthy concludes.


Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif. described Democratic lawmakers as "out of touch" with the needs and wishes of ordinary Americans during a floor speech that took place minutes before the chamber was slated to vote on the spending bill.
He called the Build Back Better Act the “single most reckless and irresponsible spending bill in our nation’s history.”

"Never in American history has so much been spent at one time," McCarthy said. "Never in American history will so many taxes be raised and so much borrowing be needed to pay for all this reckless spending."



The White House released its own score for President Biden's spending bill, based on figures pulled from separate analysis compiled by the Congressional Budget Office, the Joint Committee on Taxation and the Treasury Department.
Based on selected estimates for different parts of the bill, the White House asserts the legislation will reduce the federal deficit by $112 billion. The White House attributes $400 billion in new revenue from increased IRS tax enforcement.
Earlier, the CBO found the bill would increase, not reduce, the federal deficit by $367 billion. The agency found the IRS tax enforcement would generate about $127 billion.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi touted the CBO's findings on President Biden's spending bill, noting the agency found the bill would cost about $50 billion less than expected over 10 years, while revenue from prescription drug reforms would be about $50 billion higher.
Pelosi said that meant the bill would be "more than fully paid for," despite the CBO's indication it would add $367 billion to the federal deficit.
The Speaker also downplayed the CBO's finding that increased IRS tax enforcement would generate $127 billion in new revenue, far less than the Treasury's estimate of $400 billion.

"As long understood, CBO’s numbers on tax enforcement are lower than the Treasury’s estimates. Democrats have long known and anticipated this – will not be an issue," Pelosi said.





Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen tweeted shortly after the CBO released its analysis showing the bill will raise the federal deficit by $367 billion over 10 years, without counting increased IRS tax enforcement. The Treasury Department claims the IRS plan will raise $400 billion, while the CBO estimated it would be closer to $120 billion.
The CBO released its full cost estimate on Thursday for President Biden’s social spending bill, dubbed the “Build Back Better Act,” fulfilling a demand from moderate Democrats who wanted more information about the legislation’s long-term financial implications.
"CBO estimates that enacting this legislation would result in a net increase in the deficit totaling $367 billion over the 2022-2031 period, not counting any additional revenue that may be generated by additional funding for tax enforcement," the CBO said in a release.

The Biden administration has argued the cost of the bill’s expansive social and climate programs is fully covered by offsets such as tax hikes on the wealthy and enhanced IRS tax enforcement. The CBO score undermines that position.
The White House has argued its plan for enhanced IRS tax enforcement will generate $400 billion over 10 years, while the CBO previously estimated it would generate about $120 billion in net income.
The score could impact the planned vote on the Democrat-backed bill, which could be brought to the House floor for a vote as soon as Thursday evening.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi sent a letter to Democratic lawmakers detailing what will occur ahead of tonight's planned vote on the spending bill.
Read Pelosi's full message below.
Dear Democratic Colleague, 
This afternoon, work was completed on the Senate privilege scrub, enabling the Rules Committee to call a meeting for 5:30 p.m. to advance the revised Rule with the Manager’s Amendment, which can be viewed here.  Its summary states that it “makes technical changes to narrow U.S. Code citations and references to comply with Senate procedural requirements.” 
At the same time, the Congressional Budget Office has released its figures on the remaining titles of the bill.  An updated chart from the White House, reflecting the revised numbers, will be released, which I will send to you shortly. 

When the Rules Committee reports out the Rule, we will go to the Floor for one hour of debate.  After the vote on the Rule, the remaining 20 minutes of debate on the Build Back Better Act will commence.  
At the close of the debate, all that remains is to take up the vote – so that we can pass this legislation and achieve President Biden’s vision to Build Back Better! 
Build Back Better is a spectacular agenda for the future, with transformational action on health care, family care and climate that will make a significant difference in the lives of millions of Americans, and it is possible because of the leadership of the President.  I am grateful for the outstanding work of the Chairs, Members and staff of our House Democratic Caucus. Thank you for your leadership For The People.
The Rules Committee meeting is a key step before a potential vote on Biden's social spending bill, dubbed the "Build Back Better Act."
The Congressional Budget Office announced it will release estimates for the final two of 13 individual titles included in the spending bill, known as the "Build Back Better Act." The nonpartisan agency will release its full cost estimate for the entire bill once the individual title estimates are published.
The release would fulfill a request from moderate Democrats who pushed for more information on the bill's financial implications. Once the CBO score is released, the House could vote on the legislation as soon as Thursday evening.


Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., talks to reporters about plans to pass President Joe Biden's domestic agenda as the House meets to debate the "Build Back Better" Act, at the Capitol in Washington, Thursday, Nov. 18, 2021. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said during her weekly press conference that the House may vote Thursday on the colossal $1.75 trillion Build Back Better Act, as Republicans and Democrats await a final cost estimate from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.
The CBO release is expected Thursday afternoon.
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Democrats have yet to pass their $1.75 trillion social spending bill, but at the COP26 climate conference on Tuesday House Speaker Nancy Pelosi included some of the bill's key goals when discussing actions that the Biden administration has already taken.
Pelosi was discussing President Biden's commitments to addressing climate change and the role women will play, when she took a moment to point to what she said were the administration's accomplishments thus far.
DC LOCALS SHARE THEIR THOUGHTS ON NANCY PELOSI: ‘DOESN’T HAVE CONTROL'
"We’re here to report on what we have done," Pelosi said, going on to refer to "a nearly trillion dollar investment in Build Back Better and bipartisan infrastructure framework" that "recognizes the interconnectiveness [sic] of climate change and gender justice and enables women and girls to lead a just transition to clean energy economy of the future."
Pelosi went on to talk about the administration's "mission to decarbonize and realign every sector of the economy … to scale the solutions necessary for achieving net zero pollution globally," which is reflected in the bipartisan infrastructure bill that Congress has already passed. She then, however, referred to multiple "bills," indicating that she was also pointing to the social spending bill that has not yet passed.
A delegate has selfie taken with Speaker of the United States House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi at a session inside the venue of the COP26 U.N. Climate Summit in Glasgow, Scotland, Tuesday, Nov. 9, 2021.  (AP Photo/Alberto Pezzali)
Speaker of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, prepares for a group photo inside the venue of the COP26 U.N. Climate Summit in Glasgow, Scotland, Tuesday, Nov. 9, 2021.  (Jane Barlow/PA via AP)
The House speaker then detailed several aspects of the social spending bill that Democrats are hoping to put into place.
WITH COP26 CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE UNDERWAY, WORLD LEADERS LOOK TOWARD DRASTIC CUTS IN EMISSIONS
"It also is an investment in our care economy — child care, family medical leave; it’s about home health care, it’s about universal pre-K, all of the things that liberate women to play a more important role in our economy," she said.
When asked why she listed these agenda items in a discussion of "what we have done," Pelosi's office pointed to the progress House members have made on the bill.
"We’ve passed the rule on the Build Back Better Act so the legislation has been advanced beyond the extensive committee process," Pelosi's deputy chief of staff Drew Hammill told Fox News.
The House still needs to hold a vote to pass the bill itself, and nearly every Democrat will be needed to do so as they hold a slim majority in the chamber. Should they accomplish this, the Senate would still have to approve it — something that would take some effort given the resistance from moderate Democratic Sens. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., and Kyrsten Sinema, D-Ariz.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
President Biden heads to Scotland following his trip to Rome where he will lay out the U.S plan for climate
Protesters in the tens of thousands braved rain and gusts to march through Glasgow, host of a United Nations climate summit, part of what organizers said would be a coordinated global demonstration pushing for more action from governments to curb global warming.
Police had blocked off swaths of the city, and organizers said by late afternoon the march and rally drew some 100,000 participants, in a city with a population of about 600,000.

      Protests on Saturday came at the end of the first of two weeks of climate talks by world leaders and representatives from almost every country on Earth.
      
MENU AT COP26 MOCKED BY CLIMATE ACTIVISTS OVER MEAT AND FISH SELECTION
Protesters, decked out in raincoats and jackets, had started gathering in the late morning in Glasgow’s Kelvingrove Park. By early afternoon, thousands of marchers had descended on the city center. With darkness falling amid a downpour in the late afternoon, speakers were addressing throngs of participants.
Demonstrators were expected to include indigenous leaders from the Amazon, national trade unions and environmental groups, along with high-profile climate-change campaigners such as Swedish activist Greta Thunberg. They plan to march to the city center, where a rally there was expected around 3 p.m. local time.
A similar march and rally on Friday, headlined by Ms. Thunberg, took aim at the U.N. climate summit, called COP26. Ms. Thunberg has called it a talking shop with few concrete accomplishments to show for itself.
"I think there’s some really good statements" coming from governments during the summit, said Tess Humble, a protest organizer from a group called COP26 Coalition. "But it doesn’t take much to see there’s a whole load of greenwashing."

      TOPSHOT - Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg speaks during a climate strike demonstration of Fridays for Future in Stockholm, Sweden, on October 22, 2021. - Sweden OUT (Photo by Erik SIMANDER / TT News Agency / AFP) / Sweden OUT (Photo by ERIK SIMANDER/TT News Agency/AFP via Getty Images)
      (Photo by ERIK SIMANDER/TT News Agency/AFP via Getty Images)
U.S. special climate envoy John Kerry, in a press briefing Friday, said there would be lots of work still to do after the conference. But, he said, "what we’ll also have is a level of ambition, and a statement of goals and a capacity to get where we need to go that we’ve never had before." The U.K., the summit’s host, has said it welcomes the protests.
BIDEN SENDS ARMY OF AIDES, CABINET MEMBERS TO GLASGOW CLIMATE SUMMIT AMID MAJOR PROBLEMS AT HOME
Climate demonstrations were expected to take place Saturday in other U.K. cities including London and Manchester, and events were planned in France, Australia and Canada.
The protest comes at the end of the first of two weeks of talks by world leaders and representatives from almost every country on Earth aimed at agreeing to several measures to accelerate efforts to curb climate change. Countries have wrangled over specific emissions-cutting targets aimed at bringing greenhouse-gas emissions to levels scientists hope will limit warming to 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial-era temperatures.

      U.S. President Joe Biden speaks during the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow, Scotland, Britain November 1, 2021. Evan Vucci/ Pool via REUTERS
      (Reuters/Evan Vucci)
They are also negotiating financial support the developed world has promised poorer countries to help them transition from fossil fuels and mitigate damage from climate change.
While talks continue on those high-profile goals, countries have signed more-limited pledges among smaller, like-minded coalitions, promising to fight deforestation, for example, reduce coal use and end financing of overseas oil and natural-gas projects.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
