 (CNN)With federal health officials set to consider Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine for children 5 years and older, most Americans are slated to qualify for a shot soon. But a widening gap between vaccination rates could slow the country's progress in its fight against Covid-19, an expert warned Thursday.
For 12- to 17-year-olds, a key demographic that lags other age groups with just 47% fully vaccinated nationwide, many Southern states are trailing even further behind.
Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina and Tennessee all have less than a third of eligible adolescents fully vaccinated, according to a CNN analysis, as do North Dakota, West Virginia and Wyoming. And it could pose a greater challenge moving forward, experts warn.
"Once again you have this geographic divide where parents are holding back on vaccinating their adolescents, and I have to believe they will probably hold back on vaccinating the younger kids as well," Dr. Peter Hotez, dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine in Texas, told CNN.
"So we may be looking at very low uptake of this pediatric vaccine in the South and also in the Mountain West, and that's going to be a problem that's going to slow us down."
And as the Delta variant continues to be the most common form of the virus in the US, unvaccinated children are at significant risk because the strain is more transmissible.
Boosters and children on CDC's agenda
Vaccine advisers to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have planned two meetings in coming weeks to discuss more Covid-19 vaccine boosters, as well as Pfizer's application for emergency use authorization of its vaccine for children 5-11, officials said Friday.
"CDC's independent Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) plans to meet on Wednesday and Thursday, October 20-21 to discuss COVID-19 vaccine boosters for Moderna and Johnson & Johnson," a CDC spokesperson told CNN in an email.
"Additionally, ACIP will meet on Tuesday and Wednesday, November 2-3 to discuss pediatric COVID-19 vaccination."
That means it's unlikely children 11 and younger in the US will be able to begin the vaccination process before Halloween. The US Food and Drug Administration has scheduled meetings of its advisers on October 14 and 15 to discuss boosters, and then on October 26 to discuss Pfizer's application for children 5-11. After the FDA decides, the question goes to the CDC.

So far, about one-third of parents of 5- to 11-year-olds say they will vaccinate their child as soon as a vaccine becomes available for that age group, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation Vaccine Monitor survey published late last month. 
But more Covid-19 vaccine mandates for children on the state level could be on the horizon once the shots are approved, US Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy said Thursday.
"I think part of the reason you're going to see more states likely move in that direction post-authorization is because we all want our kids to go back to school, to be able to stay in school and to be safe," Murthy told CNN. "We've lost hundreds of children to Covid. ... Thousands have been hospitalized, and we could prevent a lot of this with a safe and effective vaccine." 
More than 600 children have died from Covid-19, according to the CDC.
A "mix and match" approach to vaccines 
Pfizer already has authorization for booster doses of its vaccine for certain people who had their first round of shots six months ago or longer. Moderna and Johnson & Johnson have both applied for booster doses for their vaccines.
And Dr. Leana Wen, former health commissioner for the City of Baltimore, said Friday some people may want to consider a "mix and match" approach when it comes to Covid-19 vaccine boosters.
"I hope that when the FDA and CDC review data around the Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, that they will allow a mix and match approach," Wen told CNN's Pamela Brown.
Wen added for those who initially received the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, being able to take a booster dose of either vaccine may be more convenient. "The mRNA vaccines really should be interchangeable," she said.
However, those who received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine may need to consider the risks associated with taking a booster dose, according to Wen. 
"We know that there is an association between the Johnson & Johnson vaccine and a very rare but extremely serious blood clotting disorder in women under the age of 50," Wen said. She added while she was fully vaccinated with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, she'd rather get a different vaccine booster.
"I will want to get one of the mRNA vaccines as the booster, and I would hope that the FDA and CDC will look at the mix and match studies already being done here in the US, as well as the data available in other countries, that support this type of mix and match approach," Wen said.
Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said late last month, "mix and match" studies are ongoing. 
"The mix and match study in which you look at Moderna as the boost against the other three, those data are now available," Fauci had said at a White House Covid-19 briefing. The data has not yet been published or submitted to the FDA.
Israel is already preparing for some of its citizens to mix and match vaccines. The country is purchasing doses of AstraZeneca's vaccine to use as boosters for those who developed myocarditis or had other adverse reactions to Pfizer's vaccine, according to a senior Israeli health official on Monday. 
"The doses are either in the air or already arrived in Israel. It's happening very imminently," said Dr. Boaz Lev, head of the advisory committee for epidemic control and corona vaccines, a part of the Israeli Ministry of Health. 
Study: Kids have same risk of infection as adults, but are more likely to be asymptomatic 
The risk of coronavirus infection among children compared to adults appears to be similar, but kids are more likely to be asymptomatic, according to a new study.
The research, published Friday in the journal JAMA Pediatrics, found the incidence rates of infection among a sample of people living in New York City and Utah were similar across ages groups.
But half of the infections among children were asymptomatic, compared with "a much smaller fraction among adults," researchers from the CDC and other institutions wrote in the study.
When the researchers analyzed how many people in each age group experienced no symptoms, they found asymptomatic infection among 52% of kids younger than 4; 50% of those ages 5 to 11; 45% of those ages 12 to 17; and 12% of adults. 
The study, conducted from September 2020 through April 2021, included data on 1,236 people from 310 households with one or more children in New York City and certain counties throughout Utah.
The researchers noted in their study some symptoms among young children might have been missed since the data on symptoms were collected from the adult caregivers of the kids -- not the kids themselves.
In general, "our findings suggest that children and adults have similar incidence rates of SARS-CoV-2 infection, underscoring the need for rapid evaluation of vaccine efficacy and safety in children to expand vaccine indications to younger age groups," the researchers wrote.
In an editorial accompanying the study, a pediatrics professor wrote as more children return to school and other normal activities, the actual impact of coronavirus on young people has become more apparent.
"While relative to adults, children continue to be generally less affected from severe Covid-19, hospitalization, and death, the number of pediatric cases, hospitalizations, and complications such as multisystem inflammatory syndrome are not insignificant and continue to rise with the advent of the Delta variant in the United States," Dr. Flor Munoz, associate professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine, wrote in the editorial.

 Vaccine mandates are working, top health official says 
The increase in mandates is working in terms of boosting vaccinations, according to officials.
Murthy, the US Surgeon General, told CNN Thursday health officials are seeing evidence of an uptick. 
"On average, organizations that put vaccine requirements in place are seeing a 20%-plus increase in the percentage of people who are vaccinated," Murthy said. 
He added such vaccine requirements aren't new in the US, and their goal is to keep the public safe. 
Currently, 65.8% of people eligible to receive Covid-19 shots are fully vaccinated, CDC data shows. 
On average, 276,539 people are initiating vaccination each day, according to the CDC, a 9.5% increase from last week and a 24.5% drop from a month earlier.
In New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio said 2,000 additional public school employees received their Covid-19 vaccine after the city's mandate went into effect September 27. In the two weeks before the deadline, there were 20,000 vaccinations, he said. 
"This strategy is working," de Blasio said, adding all 1,600 public schools are open.
CNN's Jacqueline Howard, Virginia Langmaid, Ben Tinker, Michael Nedelman, Lauren Mascarenhas, Jamie Gumbrecht, Elizabeth Cohen and  Kristina Sgueglia contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)Allen West, Republican candidate for governor of Texas, is being treated at Medical City Plano, he said Sunday on Twitter, a day after announcing he has pneumonia due to Covid-19.
The former Florida congressman said that he and his wife Angela "underwent monoclonal antibody infusion therapy" Saturday at a Dallas emergency room. While Angela was released, West was sent to Medical City Plano due to what he described as concerns over pneumonia related to Covid. He also said he is awaiting results of a chest X-ray from earlier Sunday morning.
West said he is now "even more dedicated to fighting against vaccine mandates." A post on his Facebook page Saturday had said Angela was vaccinated against the coronavirus, but he was not. 
The issue of vaccine mandates has emerged as a political battleground. Vaccines have been proven to work extremely well to protect people against Covid-19 and reduce the risk of severe disease and death. Most people now being hospitalized and treated for coronavirus infections are unvaccinated.
"Col. West is experiencing a low-grade fever and light body aches," according to his Saturday Facebook post. "Out of concern for public health, Col. West is suspending in-person events until receiving an all-clear indication."
The Facebook post said he was taking hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin -- two drugs that do not have a proven track record of success in treating Covid-19 and public health officials have recommended against using for Covid-19. Ivermectin, for example, is an anti-parasitic drug that can harm people who take it to treat coronavirus.
West stepped down as chair of the Texas Republican Party over the summer, while hinting at his run for statewide office. The retired Army lieutenant colonel was first elected Texas GOP chair last year as a strong supporter of then-President Donald Trump and critic of Texas' coronavirus restrictions.
He protested last fall with other prominent conservatives against Republican Gov. Greg Abbott's Covid-19 restrictions and mask mandate, and sued the governor for extending early voting amid the pandemic. 
Abbott, who is fully vaccinated against the virus, tested positive for Covid-19 in August. Back in March, he lifted the state's mask mandate and allowed businesses to open at 100% capacity despite warnings from public health officials. He has since opposed mask mandates and issued a controversial executive order banning school districts from requiring masks. 
West announced his bid for governor on July 4, setting up a primary challenge against Abbott, who is seeking a third term and was endorsed by Trump. 
"Cecilia and I are sending well wishes to Allen and Angela. You are in our prayers. Get well soon," Abbott tweeted Saturday.
This story has been updated Sunday with additional developments. 

Kristina Box, MD, FACOG, is state health commissioner for Indiana. Denise Jamieson, MD, MPH, is chair of the Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics at Emory University School of Medicine and chief of gynecology and obstetrics for Emory Healthcare. Judy Monroe, MD, is president and CEO of the CDC Foundation and former state health commissioner for Indiana. The views expressed in this commentary belong to the authors. View more opinion at CNN.
 (CNN)Data released this week by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) show there have been more than 128,000 confirmed Covid-19 cases among people who are pregnant, including more than 22,000 hospitalizations  and 180 deaths since the pandemic began. Among these, there were 22 deaths in August alone. 
 
To some, 180 deaths may not seem all that significant compared to the more than 700,000 people in the United States who have died since the pandemic began, but each life lost to Covid-19 is tragic. As physicians, we can also tell you 180 deaths in those who are pregnant in a little over a year and a half from one disease is truly alarming, especially since there are typically around 700 maternal deaths each year in the United States. 
 
Today, we know those who are pregnant are at an increased risk for severe illness and death from Covid-19 and pregnant people with Covid-19 have an increased risk for preterm birth and other poor pregnancy outcomes. 
 
Given these risks, it's disconcerting that, as of late September, only 31% of pregnant people have been vaccinated against Covid-19, according to CDC data. Rates are even lower among those who are Hispanic (25%) and Black (15.6%).  
 
How did we end up in such a discouraging state?
 
At the beginning of the pandemic, we had limited information about the effects of Covid-19 on pregnancy. There was also initially limited data about the safety of the vaccines in pregnancy. But the science has rapidly evolved: pregnancy causes changes in the body that could make it easier to get very sick from respiratory viruses like Covid-19, and the changes can continue after pregnancy. 
 
Meanwhile, accumulating data from vaccine safety monitoring systems have not identified any issues for pregnant people or their babies. In August, CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky said the agency "encourages all pregnant people or people who are thinking about becoming pregnant and those breastfeeding to get vaccinated." 
 
Despite this guidance, however, there has been a troubling spread of online misinformation about the vaccine that stokes fears of infertility and other side effects. 
 
These persistent myths have sadly dissuaded many -- including pregnant people -- from receiving the shot. The CDC recently responded by issuing an urgent alert  to accelerate vaccinations for people who are pregnant, were recently pregnant, trying to get pregnant, or who might become pregnant in the future. 
 
We can all play a role in helping prevent additional and unnecessary maternal deaths from Covid-19. Public health leaders should continue to work with organizations and communities to make the shots more accessible and encourage pregnant persons to get them. 
 
Our healthcare providers, doctors and nurses also have a critical role to play when it comes to asking pregnant patients about their vaccination status and addressing any fears or doubts they might have. 
 
Polling from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research shows patients trust their doctors to do what is right for them and their families, thus, doctors are ideally positioned to communicate accurate information about the dangers of Covid-19, emphasize the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines, and confront misinformation with evidence-based messaging.
 
As physicians, we agree getting vaccinated provides pregnant persons a safer and much better alternative to the risk of hospitalization and death from Covid-19. 
 
As individuals, we can all start meaningful conversations with the people in our lives about the importance of getting vaccinated. One of our daughters received the Covid-19 vaccine during the second trimester of her pregnancy and is grateful for the protection it afforded her. She recently delivered her first child and wants pregnant people to have the same protection she received from the vaccine. 
 
The future is in our hands; we should do everything we can to prevent needless illness and death and provide a safe start for pregnant people and their children.


 (CNN)There's little doubt now -- study after study, in real life and in lab dishes, in the US and elsewhere -- that people's immunity starts to wane just months after they finish the two-dose series of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine.
While getting two doses of vaccine creates a strong immune response that reduces the risk of severe disease by more than 90%, the protection against milder and asymptomatic infections drops off gradually.
That's why Pfizer has asked for and received US Food and Drug Administration authorization to add boosters for many people who are six months out from vaccination.
But should others be seeking boosters, too? How much should people be worrying?
"I think that we expect that immunity will slowly wane, over time, but it's not a reason for people to panic," said Dr. Ann Falsey, a specialist in viral respiratory diseases at the University of Rochester School of Medicine.

"It's not like suddenly one day you're completely susceptible, like you were before you were vaccinated," added Falsey, who is helping lead clinical trials of  Covid-19 vaccines. 
"The vaccines are all standing up pretty well -- Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson -- for severe disease," Falsey told CNN. "Now, that's not to say that we might not eventually get to a point where we really need people to get boosters to prevent more severe illness. But, really, the majority of the breakthrough infections are colds, maybe flu-like illness -- not the scary illnesses that we were facing before," she added.
"So my main message is, don't panic. You're going to be okay."
That hasn't stopped Americans from flocking to get boosters. This past week more people were getting booster shots than were getting their first round of a coronavirus vaccine. By Friday, more than 7 million Americans had received either booster shots or the third round of vaccines authorized for people with immunocompromising conditions who likely did not get adequate responses to the first two shots.


This week, two more studies added to the growing evidence that immunity from Pfizer's vaccine drops off.
One study from Israel covered 4,800 health care workers and showed antibody levels wane rapidly after two doses of vaccine, "especially among men, among persons 65 years of age or older, and among persons with immunosuppression."
A second study from Qatar showed protection from the Pfizer vaccine peaked in the first month after vaccination and then began to wane. 
"These findings suggest that a large proportion of the vaccinated population could lose its protection against infection in the coming months, perhaps increasing the potential for new epidemic waves," the team wrote in a report published in the New England Journal of Medicine.
How can protection wane against mild or asymptomatic infection while staying strong against severe disease?

It's because the human immune system is complex.
Antibodies form the first line of defense, stopping a virus from getting into some cells in the body. This is the protection that starts to wear off after time. 
But there's a second line of defense -- cell-based immunity. Cells called B cells and T cells can take longer to generate than antibodies, but they provide a longer-lived, broader defense against infection and are responsible for decreases in severe infections.
So while people may be susceptible to mild illness after they've been vaccinated, they're much less likely to get really sick, end up in the hospital or die.
"But there's a lot of reasons people don't want to get sick. They don't want to pass it to loved ones. People don't want to pass it to young children that can't get vaccinated yet," Falsey said.
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has been saying for months that's why even fully vaccinated people need to continue taking precautions against infection -- wearing masks when around a lot of other people who may or may not be vaccinated, especially indoors, and making sure rooms are well ventilated.

The FDA is considering applications later this month from both Moderna and Johnson & Johnson to authorize booster doses of their vaccines. Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, has said he thinks a third dose of vaccine will become part of the standard regimen for Covid-19.
"They just don't need to storm the pharmacies and panic."
The people getting boosters now should have been among the first to have been vaccinated -- in January, February and March. They include people 65 and older, adults with conditions putting them at risk of severe disease and people in occupations or living conditions that put them at higher than average risk of infection.
Everyone else should cool it for now.

"They just don't need to storm the pharmacies and panic," Falsey said.
People should not go ahead and get booster doses if it hasn't been six months since their last dose of Pfizer vaccine, because they will not get the best immune response, Fauci said in a White House briefing last month.
"There will be temptations, for example, for people who recently got vaccinated to not wait for the six month period of time," Fauci said. But waiting for several months after the initial immunization to boost helps produce a stronger response. Immune system cells that help restore waning immunity respond more robustly if they are allowed to go into a resting state after the first round of vaccination.
That said, most people should eventually plan on getting boosters, Falsey said.
"Probably it's going to be true of any of the vaccines, not just Pfizer -- we'll benefit from boosting immunity. That's not the same thing as saying it's critically necessary," she said.
While people who have recovered from an infection have some protection, they're even more protected if they get vaccinated, too.
"I think that, depending on your own natural immunity because you feel like you're a strong person is like playing Russian roulette," Falsey said.


Even young, seemingly healthy people have become seriously ill from Covid-19 and have died from it.
"I would never depend only on my natural immunity to weather this virus. It's a very, very bad actor," Falsey said.

 (CNN)A federal judge has temporarily allowed health care workers in New York to apply for religious exemptions to the state's Covid-19 vaccine mandate, according to an order.
US District Judge David Hurd made the ruling on Tuesday, granting a preliminary injunction that allows health care workers to apply for religious exemptions considered by their employers.
Hurd stated that the state Department of Health is "barred from interfering in any way with the granting of religious exemptions from Covid-19 vaccination going forward, or with the operation of exemptions already granted."
Hurd also barred the Department of Health from taking disciplinary or other action on licenses, certifications, residency, or other professional status for those health care workers who have sought or obtained religious exemptions. 
Last month, 17 health care workers, many of them unnamed doctors, residents and nurses, filed a lawsuit objecting to the New York State Department of Health's vaccine mandate, which didn't allow for religious exemptions. The judge issued a temporary restraining order on Sept. 14 related to the religious exemptions.
New York state had issued a rule requiring all health care workers to be vaccinated against Covid-19 by September 27. At the time of the deadline, about 92% of hospital staff statewide had been vaccinated. 
New York Gov. Kathy Hochul said in a statement she stood by the vaccine mandate.
"My responsibility as Governor is to protect the people of this state, and requiring health care workers to get vaccinated accomplishes that," she said in a statement. "I stand behind this mandate, and I will fight this decision in court to keep New Yorkers safe."
Meanwhile, Christopher Ferrara, the lead counsel for plaintiffs in the case and the Thomas More Society Special Counsel, praised the judge's ruling in a statement.
"With this decision the court rightly recognized that yesterday's 'front line heroes' in dealing with Covid cannot suddenly be treated as disease-carrying villains and kicked to the curb by the command of a state health bureaucracy," he said.
CNN has reached out to the New York Department of Health and the New York Attorney General's Office, who were all named as defendants in the suit, for comment.
The health care workers protesting the vaccine mandate did so because they objected to being forced to take vaccines that used "fetal cell lines" from "procured abortions."
A New York State health official confirmed in an affidavit as part of this case that fetal cell lines were used in the testing and production of current Covid-19 vaccines, according to the judge's order. 
"In sum, while none of the FDA approved Covid-19 vaccines contain any fetal cells, fetal cell lines were only 'used in testing during research and development of the mRNA vaccines [Moderna or Pzifer], and during production of the Johnson and Johnson [Janssen] Vaccine,'" an affidavit from Dr. Elizabeth Rausch-Phung, medical director of the Bureau of Immunization at the New York State Department of Health, reads.
Even so, the Vatican has said it is "morally acceptable to receive Covid-19 vaccines that have used cell lines from aborted fetuses in their research and production process." 
The state entities who were sued argued that their vaccine mandate for health care workers was necessary to control the continued spread of Covid-19, including the Delta variant.
The preliminary injunction was granted as a temporary measure to allow the plaintiffs to continue to argue their cases. Hurd said the question is not whether the plaintiffs are entitled to religious exemptions but whether the state's vaccine mandate conflicts with the plaintiffs' "federally protected right to seek a religious accommodation" from their employers.

 (CNN)President Joe Biden on Friday attributed the disappointing September jobs report to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic but sought to frame the new data as steady progress toward the nation's economic recovery.
In a speech at the White House, Biden pointed to the specific week when the survey for the monthly jobs report was done as one reason the number of jobs added in September fell below expectations.
"Today's report is based on a survey that was taken during the week of September 13. Not today, September the 13th -- when Covid cases were average more than 150,000 per day," Biden said. "Since then, we've seen the daily cases fall by more than one-third and they're continuing to trend down, and we're continuing to make progress."
In a troubling sign that Covid is still disrupting the economy, the new jobs report indicates that US employers added only 194,000 jobs in September. 
September marked the second-straight month in which the US economy added far fewer jobs than expected. Jobs growth slowed down dramatically in August.
The unemployment rate declined to 4.8% in September, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said Friday, down from 5.2% in August. Joblessness declined across the board, with the Black unemployment rate falling the most of any group -- to 7.9% from 8.8% in August.
Biden cited those statistics in trying to put a positive spin on the report.
"Today's report has the unemployment rate down to 4.8%, a significant improvement from when I took office and a sign that our recovery is moving forward even in the face of a Covid pandemic," Biden said.
The President said that the new report shows "we're actually making real progress," shrugging off concerns in Washington about the jobs numbers not meeting their targets. 
"Right now, things in Washington, as you all know, are awfully noisy. Turn on the news and every conversation is a confrontation. Every disagreement is a crisis. But when you take a step back and look at what's happening, we're actually making real progress," Biden said. "Maybe it doesn't seem fast enough. I'd like to see it faster and we're going to make it faster. Maybe it doesn't appear dramatic enough. ... We're making consistent and steady progress, though." 
The President also used the speech to make the case for his infrastructure and social safety net legislative agenda.
"We need to stay focused on what these bills mean for the people, who are just looking for a little bit of breathing room, a fair chance to build a decent middle-class life, to succeed and thrive instead of just hanging on by their fingernails," Biden remarked. "We need to keep an eye -- an eye -- on what's fundamentally at stake for our country: the ability to compete and win the race of the 21st century as we did in the 20th century."
Labor Secretary Marty Walsh told "CNN Newsroom" on Friday that there were some "bright spots" in the report, including the women's participation unemployment rate down to 4.2% and unemployment among Black women is down to 7.3%.
"This is not all doom and gloom here today. Certainly, we know, I would love to be on this show saying we added 3 million jobs to the economy and now we can go on to something else, but unfortunately we're still -- we're not there yet," he conceded.
As for what this portends for Democratic negotiations on the Biden economic agenda, Walsh made the argument that the weak job growth bolsters the need to pass the President's legislative priorities.
"I would hope that, you know, members of Congress and members of the Senate today look at this jobs report and see where the shortfalls are and understand that these investments that the President wants to make in these areas will have long-term, lasting, positive impacts on our economy moving forward," he continued. 
The White House released a report on Thursday highlighting support for vaccine requirements across business and labor communities. 
The report also details the positive economic effects among communities with high vaccination rates, including that "small business employee hours grew faster and stayed higher during the rise of the Delta variant in the states that have higher working-age vaccination rates, versus states with lower vaccination rates."
CNN's Anneken Tappe contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)When CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta sat down for a three-hour conversation on "The Joe Rogan Experience" podcast, the chief topic was Covid-19. 
Gupta and Rogan -- whose views often were at odds -- discussed the pandemic, vaccines, potential therapeutics and the risk coronavirus poses to children and young people, among many other subjects. 
Here are four key moments from the conversation between Gupta, author of the new book "World War C: Lessons from the Covid-19 Pandemic and How to Prepare for the Next One," and Rogan, one of the world's most influential podcast hosts.
Rogan agrees a lot of 'vulnerable people' should get vaccinated
Rogan, who is not vaccinated against Covid-19, has previously expressed skepticism that young, healthy people should get the shot. But in his conversation with Gupta, Rogan agreed that certain people who are vulnerable to the virus should get inoculated against Covid-19, particularly those who are obese or elderly. 
"That's half the country, probably more, when you talk about obesity and diabetes and the other comorbidities that are associated with this," Gupta said. "You're talking about hundreds of millions of people. ... Doesn't that make the case that we need to vaccinate?" 
"I think it makes a good case to vaccinate vulnerable people, and that includes obese people," Rogan said. 
Rogan announced last month he had tested positive for Covid-19, but when asked if he wished he were vaccinated before he tested positive, Rogan said no, adding he got over the virus "pretty quickly." 
"My thought was, I'm a healthy person, I exercise constantly, I'm always taking vitamins. I take care of myself. I felt like I was going to be OK. And that was true, it was correct. I'm happy I got through it. I don't wish it upon anyone. It wasn't fun, but it wasn't the worst cold I've ever had, and I got over it fairly quickly, relatively speaking." 
But, Rogan added, "I'm not recommending anybody get infected."
"So, they should get vaccinated," Gupta said. 
"I think a lot of people should get vaccinated," Rogan said.
Gupta explains why Covid-19 is still a serious disease for children
The pair also discussed the risk posed to children by either Covid-19 or the vaccines. 
Rogan asked Gupta what studies show about the impact of coronavirus on young children, to which Gupta replied, "We know that they're far less likely to get sick, that's for sure." 
But just because children are less likely to be hospitalized or die from Covid-19 doesn't mean the virus doesn't pose a threat to them, even if they are young and otherwise healthy, Gupta explained. He pointed to cases of long-haul Covid-19, in which people report suffering symptoms for months after infection.  
Rogan expressed concern over the small number of cases of myocarditis -- an inflammation of the heart muscle -- in young people after they had received a Covid-19 vaccine. 
The mRNA Covid-19 vaccines made by Pfizer and Moderna have been linked to rare cases of myocarditis and pericarditis. Warnings were added to the vaccines' fact sheets; studies have shown the cases are typically mild. Almost all of the cases occurred in young people ages 16 to 24.

"That's terrifying for parents," Rogan said, "the idea that your son could get vaccinated -- and most likely he would have been fine if he got Covid -- and that your son could catch myocarditis and have permanent heart problems."
"Well, I don't know that we can say a person would be fine if they get Covid, Joe," Gupta said. "When you say fine, you mean what? That they're not going to die?" 
"I mean like me," Rogan said. "I had Covid, I'm fine."
"You look like you're as strong as an ox, yes, I'll give you that," Gupta said. "But you get teenagers who will have these long Covid naps ... They're tired all the time. They get these sort of long-hauler type symptoms. Less so in kids, but when you talk about 33% of people having persistent symptoms that last months -- I think we're allowed to have a nuanced conversation about this. 
"We measure things in terms of life and death, and I get that, it's easy, it's public health, that's the way the numbers get presented. And frankly, that's probably our fault as well in the media, to just say this is how many people have died." 
But Gupta later added, "We don't know a lot about what this virus does to the body. We probably shouldn't just think of it as another type of pneumonia or cold, because it's clearly doing something else. A cold wouldn't cause just isolated loss of smell. Flu wouldn't even do that. And there's so many people developing long-term symptoms."
A new antiviral treatment wouldn't change Gupta's mind on vaccines
Rogan asked Gupta about his thoughts on Covid-19 therapeutics, specifically a new drug by Merck and Ridgeback Biotherapeutics that would be the first oral antiviral treatment to fight Covid-19. 
Merck said Monday it was seeking US Food and Drug Administration emergency use authorization for the treatment, molnupiravir, which comes in a capsule. The FDA said this week it will convene an advisory committee in late November to discuss it.
While Gupta said he needs to remain skeptical before seeing all the data, the doctor said, "If this medication holds up, you know, they review (the data) and it's true. I think it's, it's pretty significant. It reminds you a little bit of, like, Tamiflu ... but this would even be potentially more effective than Tamiflu is for the flu."
Merck's submission to the FDA was based on a study stopped early because the drug was working so well in more than 700 patients randomly assigned to take either molnupiravir or a placebo. In a statement, Merck said the interim analysis indicated molnupiravir reduced the risk of hospitalization or death by about 50%.
Rogan asked Gupta, "Would you change your perspective on vaccines if that turned out to be very effective?"
"I still don't want this disease, Joe," Gupta said. "I just don't want it, I don't know what the heck this virus does to the body. I'm not saying it to scare you because, like I said, most people are gonna be fine." 
Rogan reveals he 'almost' got vaccinated 
Rogan also described how he almost got a Covid-19 vaccine before an Ultimate Fighting Championship match earlier this year in Las Vegas. Rogan is a UFC commentator.
"I almost got it," Rogan said. "The UFC had allocated a bunch of doses for all of their employees, and I came down on Friday and I said, 'Hey, can I get vaccinated?' And they said yes, let's set it up. 
"Right before the event started, they said, 'You're going to have to come to the hospital. Can you come on Monday?'" Rogan said. "And I said, 'I can't be here Monday.' I said, 'I have a previous obligation,' I said, 'but I'll be back in two weeks, let's do it in two weeks, I'll come in a day early.' And they said great."
But in the meantime, the Johnson & Johnson vaccine got "pulled," Rogan said, referring to a moment in April when the FDA recommended the US pause administration of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine over a small number of reported cases of a "rare and severe" type of blood clot. The recommendation was lifted 10 days later, and a warning about the rare clotting syndrome was added to the vaccine's label.
Rogan also described two other people he said had adverse reactions after vaccination. As a result, "I got nervous about it," he said.
Experts say the risks posed by Covid-19 infection far outweigh the risk of getting vaccinated, and adverse reactions to vaccination remain rare. 
Additionally, Rogan said he was nervous that some adverse reactions appeared to be underreported in the CDC's Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System -- a voluntary database where health care providers and the public can submit reports of adverse events after vaccination. (The CDC notes VAERS reports may be incomplete, inaccurate, coincidental and unverifiable and may be subject to biases.)
"So, I'm like, how many people have had adverse reactions that were submitted versus not submitted?" Rogan said. "And I do know that some of the people that submit things to the VAERS report, they're not telling the truth, they're making things up. There's a lot of, you know -- whenever you have, like, an open forum like that you're going to get a lot of bullsh*t right? So who knows how much of it is true and how much of it is not." 

 (CNN)President Joe Biden's Covid-19 response coordinator is having discussions with the leaders of several major airlines about vaccine requirements for employees, according to a source familiar with the talks. 
Jeff Zients, the White House official leading the Biden administration's response to the pandemic, has urged the CEOs to act sooner rather than later when it comes to mandating the vaccine for their workers, the source said.
Administration officials "have been extending their gratitude to airline executives for their commitment and actions to move on these requirements as quickly as they have," the source added. The federal employer mandate rules announced by Biden last month covered most businesses with 100 or more employees, and gave workers a choice between vaccination or weekly Covid testing.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said last week those rules are still weeks away from being implemented.
Reuters first reported on Friday that Zients had spoken to executives with American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and Southwest Airlines, urging them to enforce vaccine mandates for their employees ahead of forthcoming administration deadlines. Over the weekend, American Airlines, Alaska Airlines and JetBlue announced they were joining United Airlines in mandating vaccines for employees and Southwest Airlines joined them on Monday. The airlines cited the US government's requirement for federal contractors to be vaccinated as the main reason for the mandate, and are not offering the option to test regularly instead.
 Delta Air Lines remains the biggest holdout. 
United Airlines announced last week that only 593 of its workers face dismissal for not complying with the requirement to get a Covid-19 vaccine, less than 1% of its 67,000 US workers who are covered by the rule. About 2,000 other employees, or less than 3% of the workforce, have applied for medical or religious exemptions from the vaccine, and their cases are being considered by the airline.
Support for employer mandates has been growing as Covid-19 cases and deaths surged this summer, primarily among unvaccinated people. A CNN poll conducted in August showed 54% supported employer vaccine mandates, up from only 46% in April.
This story has been updated with additional information.

 (CNN)Former Washington State Cougars football coach Nick Rolovich plans to take legal action against the university following his firing on Monday for failing to comply with the state's Covid-19 vaccine mandate, his attorney told CNN on Wednesday.
Washington Gov. Jay Inslee's proclamation required full vaccinations by this past Monday for most state employees.
Calling the former head coach's firing "unjust and unlawful," Brian Fahling, Rolovich's attorney, said in a statement that the termination "came after Coach Rolovich's request for a religious exemption from the vaccine was denied by the University. The institution also indicated that even if the exemption had been granted, no accommodation would have been made." 
CNN has reached out to Washington State for comment.
Rolovich, who was named the 33rd head football coach in WSU program history on January 14, 2020, was the highest-paid employee in the state, with a salary of $3.2 million.
In July, Rolovich said in a post on social media that he "elected not to receive a Covid-19 vaccine for reasons which will remain private."
"While I have made my own decision," Rolovich said then, "I respect that every individual -- including our coaches, staff and student-athletes -- can make his or her own decision regarding the COVID-19 vaccine."
Rolovich's attorney alleges that Washington State Athletic Director Pat Chun was going to fire the coach in the spring.
"Since at least early April, it became clear that Chun had already determined that Coach Rolovich would be fired," Fahling said.
"Chun's animus towards Coach Rolovich's sincerely held religious beliefs, and Chun's dishonesty at the expense of Coach Rolovich during the past year is damning and will be thoroughly detailed in litigation. Chun's discriminatory and vindicative behavior has caused immeasurable harm to Coach Rolovich and his family."
In his first season at the school last year, which was shortened due to the pandemic, Rolovich finished 1-3. So far this year, the Cougars have a 4-3 record.
Washington State will play its first game since his departure this Saturday when the team hosts the BYU Cougars (5-2) at home. 

 (CNN)Washington State University's head football coach, Nick Rolovich, and four assistant coaches are losing their jobs because they failed to comply with the state's Covid-19 vaccine mandate, the university's athletics department said Monday.
"Due to the requirements set forth in Washington Governor Jay Inslee's Proclamation 21-14.1, Nick Rolovich is no longer able to fulfill the duties as the football head coach at Washington State University," the department said in a news release. 
Rolovich was named the 33rd head football coach in WSU program history on January 14, 2020. He was the highest-paid employee in the state, with a salary of $3.2 million. 
Defensive coordinator Jake Dickert will become acting head coach, the release said.
The four assistant coaches are Ricky Logo, John Richardson, Craig Stutzmann and Mark Weber, the release said. 

"This is a disheartening day for our football program," director of athletics Pat Chun said in a statement. "Our priority has been and will continue to be the health and well-being of the young men on our team. The leadership on our football team is filled with young men of character, selflessness and resiliency and we are confident these same attributes will help guide this program as we move forward."
Inslee's proclamation required full vaccinations by Monday for most state employees.
It's the latest Covid-19 vaccine issue to roil the sports world. Earlier Monday, the National Hockey League announced that Evander Kane of the San Jose Sharks has been suspended after an investigation into whether he submitted a fraudulent Covid-19 vaccination card, according to Front Office Sports and ESPN.
Vaccine mandates have prompted showdowns between employers and employees outside the world of sports since President Joe Biden in September imposed stringent new vaccine rules on federal workers, large employers and health care staff in a sweeping attempt to contain the spread of Covid-19.
The requirements could apply to as many as 100 million Americans -- close to two-thirds of the American workforce.
Mandates have spurred workers to get vaccinated -- but some holdouts, like Rolovich, have been suspended or lost their jobs, and left workplaces scrambling to cover potential shortages.
In July, Rolovich said in a post on social media that he "elected not to receive a COVID-19 vaccine for reasons which will remain private."
"While I have made my own decision," Rolovich said then, "I respect that every individual -- including our coaches, staff and student-athletes -- can make his or her own decision regarding the COVID-19 vaccine."
The team went 1-3 last season, which was shortened because of the pandemic. The Cougars are 4-3 this season.
On Saturday, after a 34-31 win at home against Stanford, Rolovich was asked in a postgame news conference if he knew whether he would be coaching the team the following week.
"I do not," Rolovich told reporters.
When asked whether he had been given guidance between then and Monday regarding an exemption request, Rolovich said he was waiting for an email.
"I'm going to come to work tomorrow and get ready for BYU, and we'll grade this film," Rolovich said Saturday, speaking of the October 23 game against Brigham Young University. "I don't think this is in my hands. I've been settled for a long time on it. I believe it's going to work out the right way."
Asked whether the "right way" meant remaining as the team's head coach, Rolovich replied, "Correct. Or if that's not what (Chun) wants, then I guess then I've got to move on."
When Rolovich was asked whether he would take the vaccine to save his job, he replied, "If that happens, you'll be the first to know."
CNN's Jill Martin contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)The number of people in the US looking to boost their Covid-19 vaccinations has surpassed the tally of those looking to begin them as booster doses from more drug makers may soon be available.
There are 1.3 times as many boosters administered each day compared with first shots, data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows.
And on Thursday, vaccine advisers to the CDC voted to recommend booster doses of both Moderna's and Johnson & Johnson vaccines, a day after the US Food and Drug Administration gave boosters of the two vaccines emergency use authorization. CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky endorsed their recommendations later Thursday, opening the way for millions more Americans to get their booster shots.
The FDA had authorized a "mix and match" approach -- saying people could get any vaccine as a booster, regardless of which vaccine they got for the initial immunization. Walensky also endorsed that approach, saying eligible Americans could choose whichever vaccine they wished as a booster.
Until this week, only the Pfizer vaccine has been authorized for use as a booster for members of certain high-risk groups who received two doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine at least six months ago.
A booster dose of the Pfizer coronavirus vaccine was found to be highly effective -- 95.6% -- in a Phase 3 trial, the companies announced Thursday. "Efficacy was consistent irrespective of age, sex, race, ethnicity or comorbid conditions," they noted.
The FDA, pending more safety data, could also soon lower the age range on its emergency use authorizations for booster shots, officials told reporters Wednesday.
"We want to make sure that if we deploy the boosters in all of the age ranges that we truly are making a benefit outweigh any risk," said Dr. Peter Marks, director of that agency's vaccine arm, the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.
Evidence suggests that immunity from full vaccination can wane, driving the push to authorize booster doses, acting FDA Commissioner Dr. Janet Woodcock said Wednesday.
"The currently available data suggest waning immunity in some populations of fully vaccinated people," Woodcock told reporters during a telephone briefing. "And the availability of these authorized boosters is important for continued protection against Covid-19 disease."
Four states have vaccinated less than 45% of residents
Health experts continue to stress vaccination as the key to controlling the spread of Covid-19, and many are still encouraging more Americans to get their first doses. 
Roughly 57.2% of the US population is fully vaccinated, according to data published Thursday by the CDC, with the current pace of new vaccinations roughly the same as last week.
Thirty-five states have fully vaccinated more than half of their population -- but four states have vaccinated less than 45% of their residents: Alabama, Idaho, West Virginia and Wyoming.
Over the summer, when the Delta variant was driving a dangerous surge of new infections and hospitalizations across the country, Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey called out unvaccinated residents for the rise in cases in the state, saying in July, "It's time to start blaming the unvaccinated folks ... It's the unvaccinated folks that are letting us down."
Health officials in the US have warned that even as many states now see their Covid-19 numbers trend back down, vaccinations will be key in helping prevent new infections, hospitalizations and deaths from ticking back up.
Vaccinating younger kids will play a 'major role' in controlling the pandemic
Younger children are still not eligible for even their first doses, but their protection will be key to bringing the pandemic under control, experts have said. 
Currently, only adolescents as young as 12 are eligible for vaccines, but data has been submitted to the FDA for doses for children 5 to 11.
About 28 million children 5 to 11 could soon become eligible to get vaccinated if the FDA authorizes shots for this age group and if the CDC recommends it.
The White House on Wednesday unveiled its plans to roll out vaccines for children ages 5 to 11, pending FDA authorization.
Vaccine advisers to the FDA are scheduled to meet next week to consider Pfizer's request to authorize its vaccine for ages 5 to 11. It would be the first Covid-19 vaccine for younger kids.
"We know millions of parents have been waiting for Covid-19 vaccine for kids in this age group. And should the FDA and (CDC) authorize the vaccine, we will be ready to get shots in arms," White House Covid-19 response director Jeff Zients told reporters at a White House Covid-19 briefing on Wednesday.
Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy talked with CNN on Thursday morning about children and the disease.
"If you look at the toll on our children, it is quite signficant," Murthy said, noting hundreds of deaths and thousands of hospitalizations among kids and the countless interruptions of schools and activities.
Getting most children vaccinated will "play a major role" in slowing the spread, Fauci said Wednesday.
"In the era of Delta, children get infected as readily as adults do. And they transmit the infection as readily as adults do. We may not appreciate that, because about 50% of the infections in children are asymptomatic," Fauci told a White House briefing.
"If we can get the overwhelming majority of those 28 million children vaccinated, I think that would play a major role in diminishing the spread of infection in the community," said Fauci, chief medical adviser to President Joe Biden.
Study details toll on minorities
Racial and ethnic minority groups in the US were more likely than non-Hispanic White people to experience severe Covid-19 infections resulting in hospitalization, admission to intensive care units, and in-hospital death, according to a study published Thursday in JAMA Network Open.
In the first year of the pandemic, American Indian or Alaska Native people were overall the most likely to experience these severe outcomes. They were 3.7 times more likely than non-Hispanic White people to be hospitalized with Covid-19, 6.5 times more likely to be admitted to an ICU and more than seven times more likely to die in the hospital. 
Hispanic people were about three times more likely than White people to be hospitalized and about four times more likely to be admitted to an ICU or die. 
Overall, Black people were about three times more likely to experience any of those severe outcome, and Asian or Pacific Islanders were about twice as likely to be admitted to an ICU or die and slightly more likely than White people to be hospitalized with Covid-19.
Disparities have improved since the first year of the pandemic, but CDC data through early September 2021 shows that American Indian people are still 3.5 times more likely than White people to be hospitalized with Covid-19, and Black and Hispanic people are 2.8 times more likely. 
CNN's Deidre McPhillips, Maggie Fox, John Bonifield, Jacqueline Howard, Naomi Thomas and Maya Brown contributed to this report.
 (CNN)The Florida Board of Education on Thursday voted to sanction eight school districts that have instituted Covid-19 mask mandates without giving parents the ability to opt their students out. 
In doing so, the state board said that school districts in Alachua, Brevard, Broward, Duval, Leon, Miami-Dade, Orange and Palm Beach counties were not in compliance and directly violating a Florida Department of Health emergency rule. 
As a penalty, Florida Board of Education Commissioner Richard Corcoran has requested that funds for each district be withheld "in an amount equal to 1/12 of all school board members' salaries," in addition to withholding any amount equal to federal grant funds awarded to those districts by President Joe Biden's administration. 
Thursday's vote is the latest development in a showdown between the state and a handful of local school districts that decided to implement a mask requirement in their schools, defying an executive order by Gov. Ron DeSantis that sought to give parents a choice on whether their children should wear masks in class. The state had threatened to withhold funding from districts that violated the order and required masks for everyone.
In comments to the state board, superintendents from those districts argued Thursday they were in compliance, with many citing the increasing Covid-19 case counts and the spread in school as reasons for having the mask mandates. 

Duval County Schools Superintendent Diana Greene noted that after the second week of school opening, the district recorded 10 employee deaths. 
Additionally, the Department of Health had a "clear inability" to complete contact tracing, case investigations and timely notifications to impacted families, she said, which had "a direct impact of the spread of the virus throughout our school, ultimately jeopardizing the health and safety of students and employees." 
Brevard County Schools Superintendent Mark Mullins argued the mask mandates were necessary after schools opened without them, leading to "catastrophic outcomes for our schools and community."
"We had over 3,200 positive cases, had to shut down one school and were on the brink of having shut down others," Mullins said, adding that staff members were also hospitalized.
In a statement issued Thursday, Alachua County Superintendent Carlee Simon said the district would "maintain its current masking protocols" despite the sanction, saying, "We believe those protocols comply with state law and our constitutional obligation to provide students with a safe learning environment."
In its own statement, the state Board of Education said, in part, that the school board members of the eight sanctioned districts had "willingly and knowingly violated the rights of students and parents by denying them the option to make personal and private health care and educational decisions for their children."
"Elected school board members should set a good example for our leaders of tomorrow," State Board of Education Chair Tom Grady said. "Instead, they are telling our younger generations that it is perfectly acceptable to pick and choose what laws they follow because they disagree with the underlying policy. That is simply unacceptable and antithetical to our Constitution."
Board of Education commissioner criticizes federal grants
The US Department of Education had paid grants to the Alachua and Broward County school districts to offset the penalties by the state, but on Thursday Corcoran called this "one of the most egregious violations" of the US Constitution. 
"I strongly believe that this federal grant program improperly attempts to interfere with the state board's authority to manage our state's educational system. Education is a state responsibility, not a federal one and one given to this board under our state's constitution," Corcoran said.

In response, Ian Rosenblum, deputy assistant secretary for Policy and Programs at the Department of Education, sent a letter to Corcoran Thursday that said efforts to withhold more funding from schools presented "legal concerns." 
"We should be thanking districts for using proven strategies that will keep schools open and safe, not punishing them. We stand with the dedicated educators in Alachua and across the country doing the right thing to protect their school communities," US Education Secretary Miguel Cardona said last month. 
"With these grants, we're making sure schools and communities across the country that are committed to safely returning to in-person learning know that we have their backs," he said.
6 districts filed petition challenging rule
Six of the districts filed a petition against the Department of Health Wednesday, challenging the rule that blocked the implementation of mask mandates and another allowing parents to decide if their student should quarantine after being exposed to Covid-19. 
The petition was filed with the Florida Division of Administrative Affairs on behalf of the Miami-Dade, Broward, Orange, Duval, Alachua and Leon County school boards. 
The petition specifically challenged the rule allowing parents to opt their children out of mask mandates, calling it "arbitrary and capricious."
The rule, the petitioners claimed, "is actually focused not on controlling COVID-19 but rather on protecting parental rights." 
"The DOH does not have rulemaking authority in this area," the petition said, "and thus exceeded its rulemaking authority." 
Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly identified the county where Mark Mullins works. He is the superintendent of Brevard County Public Schools.
CNN's Ashley Ahn contributed to this report.
 (CNN)A King County, Washington, woman has died from a rare blood clotting syndrome after receiving the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine, according to a statement posted online by Public Health -- Seattle & King County. 
The woman, who was in her late 30s, was vaccinated on August 26 and died on September 7 from thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome, known as TTS. It's a rare and potentially deadly clotting event that has been linked with the J&J vaccine. 
Public Health -- Seattle & King County said the diagnosis was confirmed by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Clinical Immunization Safety Assessment Project. CDC has reported three other confirmed TTS deaths nationally, the release said.

"The safety and well-being of every individual who receives a Johnson & Johnson product remains our top priority," a spokesperson at J&J told CNN.
"Any adverse event report about individuals receiving Johnson & Johnson's single-shot COVID-19 vaccine, as well as our own assessment of the report, is shared with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European Medicines Agency, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and other appropriate health authorities where our vaccine is authorized," the spokesperson added.
"We strongly support raising awareness of the signs and symptoms of the rare events described in the FDA Factsheet for the vaccine, to ensure they can be quickly identified and effectively treated."

The local health agency did not identify the woman who died. But early this month, the website of The Oregonian newspaper published an obituary for 37-year-old Seattle resident Jessica Berg Wilson that said she died September 7 from a rare vaccine-induced blood clotting syndrome. 
The King County Medical Examiner's Office confirmed to CNN that Wilson died September 7.
In a statement, the CDC said it was aware of the case and the report "indicates a plausible causal relationship between the J&J/Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine and TTS." The agency said it will release updated information on TTS cases later this year.
Earlier this year, the CDC and US Food and Drug Administration recommended a pause in the use of the J&J Covid-19 vaccine after a small number of reports of blood clots among people who had received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, most of them women younger than 50. Use of the vaccine resumed shortly after with a new warning about the risk of blood clots, and clear instructions for health care providers about the particular treatment required.
Health officials said the Johnson & Johnson was safe and effective, and the benefits of the single-shot vaccine far outweighed the risks. 
Indeed, severe blood clots are just one of many serious risks from Covid-19; the virus has caused more than 700,000 deaths in the United States. More than 186 million people in the United States have been fully vaccinated -- nearly 15 million received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine -- with few serious side effects.
TTS "is rare, occurring at a rate of about 7 per 1 million vaccinated women between 18 and 49 years old. For women 50 years and older and men of all ages, this adverse event is even more rare," the CDC says.
CDC says people who received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine should look out for symptoms of a blood clot with low platelets for several weeks after vaccination, and should seek medical care immediately if they identify any. Symptoms include: "severe or persistent headaches or blurred vision, shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, persistent abdominal pain" and "easy bruising or tiny blood spots under the skin beyond the injection site." It can be treated with anticoagulants other than heparin.
There is no increased risk of TTS after vaccination with the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, CDC says. "Women younger than 50 years old, especially, should be aware of the rare but increased risk of this adverse event, and they should know about other available COVID-19 vaccine options for which this risk has not been seen," the agency says.
TTS has also been linked to AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine, which is not authorized for use in the United States, but is widely used in other countries. Both the AstraZeneca and J&J vaccines use a common cold virus called an adenovirus to carry the vaccine's active ingredients into the body.
CNN's Lauren Mascarenhas and Michael Nedelman contributed to this report.
 (CNN)Mark Warschauer, a professor of education at the University of California, Irvine, was "tremendously excited" about the authorization of Covid-19 vaccines, and happy when he became eligible to get his first doses.
And he was at the front of the line to get a booster, too.
"We were very concerned about Covid," he told CNN. "I'm not elderly, but at the age of 67 I knew there was a substantial risk of hospitalization and even death from Covid. So I got my vaccine at the earliest possible date."
Warschauer is leading a trend.
According to most recent data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more people are receiving a booster dose of a Covid-19 vaccine each day than are getting their first shot or are becoming fully vaccinated each day. 
CDC data now shows more than six million fully vaccinated Americans have received a booster dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. An average of 390,444 people are getting a booster shot each day, while only 288,105 people are starting their vaccination series each day and 276,539 people are becoming fully vaccinated each day.


Current recommendations from the CDC are that people over 65, people who have a health condition putting them at greater risk of severe disease if they do get a breakthrough infection or people who face a greater risk of contracting Covid-19 while at work or in their living circumstances can receive a booster dose. A booster dose is currently only authorized for those who received a full series of Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccination.
Plus, certain people who are immune compromised are authorized for a third dose, although it's not technically considered a booster because it's likely they did not fully respond to the first two doses.
While Biden administration officials have stressed that booster doses are important in addition to increasing the number of Americans vaccinated with the initial series of shots, booster dose administration rates have outpaced the number of people starting vaccination since October 1.



"Vaccinating the unvaccinated remains the top priority, including through vaccination requirements," White House Covid-19 Response Coordinator Jeff Zients said Wednesday in a White House Covid-19 Response Team briefing.
Getting boosters to protect themselves, others
Lindsay Adams, a 27-year-old attorney in Hamilton County, Indiana who is 18 weeks pregnant, said she got an additional dose in the hope of keeping her baby safe, as well as herself. 
She was following news stories about studies done on women who got vaccinated while pregnant, which showed babies were born with high levels of antibodies from their mothers' vaccination, she told CNN in an email. 
As soon as her employer offered boosters, and after checking that her obstetrician approved, Adams got her booster shot. 
"I was happy to be able to have a chance to get a booster while I'm pregnant in the hopes that it will help keep my baby safe, too," she said. 


"For me it has always been an easy decision," she added, saying she's grateful that she has been able to get all three shots.
According to CDC data, more than 64% of booster doses administered so far have been given to people 65 or older. Nearly 9% of all fully vaccinated people 65 or older have received a booster dose.
As someone who says he tries to follow the science carefully, Warschauer said he felt the same about boosters. 


"I was naturally also looking forward to the possibility of getting my booster," he said, adding that he got it as soon as he was eligible. 
Getting his booster shot was about more than protecting himself, he said. It was about protecting everyone else around him. 
"It just seems like part of my responsibilities being a good citizen," he said. "And also, you know, protecting my own health." 
 Meeting booster demand
Zients said the Biden administration's work around booster doses is "paying off."
"We estimate that 4 million Americans have now rolled up their sleeves and gotten a booster shot, including 2 million in the first week and another 2 million in just the last five days," he said.
"Our booster program is not only up and running, but it's also accelerating and we're building on our strong start to get millions of eligible Americans their booster shot."
The administration of booster doses may pose a challenge to some vaccine clinics as demand increases.
"On the ground, it's been manageable, and we haven't been hearing much in terms of trouble with the Pfizer boosters. But I think the main concern about adding more boosters is capacity," Lori Tremmel Freeman, chief executive officer of the National Association of County and City Health Officials, told CNN on Wednesday.


"Mass vaccination clinics will likely be considered when and where there's a need."
As an employee of the University of Michigan who runs Covid-19 testing sites, Alicia Kalsi, 26, was able to get her booster shot at an employee clinic early on in the booster rollout. 
Kalsi told CNN that under CDC guidelines, her job meant that she was in the "you may get" the booster group, not the "you should" group. She decided to get her booster shot for both occupational and personal reasons. 
"I knew from an occupational standpoint it would be beneficial for me to do it," she said. 
"And as for from a personal standpoint, I'm a public health practitioner and it's very exciting to see this inoculation rollout. And like I mentioned with my first dose, I'm really excited to be able to be involved with something so historic. It's incredibly exciting for me. It's a privilege and an honor to be able to protect myself and my community by doing something so simple."

The last time she checked, she said, the next available appointment at the employee clinic was at the end of October. 
"It's a decently high demand," she said. "Funny enough, when I was talking to the nurse who was administering my vaccine, she was saying to me it's nice that we have people who are so excited to come in again." 

 (CNN)A US Food and Drug Administration advisory committee recommended Tuesday that the agency grant emergency use authorization for the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for children ages 5 to 11. Next, the FDA decides whether to authorize the vaccine, and then the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's vaccine advisory committee will meet to consider whether it should be recommended for that age group. If CDC Director  Dr. Rochelle Walensky signs off on that recommendation, younger children could be getting vaccinated next week.
Many parents and children have questions about what having this vaccine will mean. Do vaccinated kids still have to mask in schools? Can they see more friends and have sleepovers now? And do young kids really get that sick from Covid-19?
I discussed these and more questions with CNN Medical Analyst Dr. Leana Wen, an emergency physician and professor of health policy and management at the George Washington University Milken Institute School of Public Health. She is also author of a new book, "Lifelines: A Doctor's Journey in the Fight for Public Health," and the mother of two young children.
CNN: What do we know about the effectiveness of the Covid-19 vaccine for children ages 5 to 11?
Dr. Leana Wen: According to the data reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration, the Covid-19 vaccine is more than 90% effective against symptomatic illness for children in this younger age group. That's very good, and it provides a lot of reassurance for parents that their younger kids will have an excellent layer of protection once the vaccine is authorized and they can get vaccinated.
CNN: Does that mean once kids are vaccinated, they can stop wearing masks in schools?
Wen: The CDC has said that kids should remain masked in schools, even after they are vaccinated. I believe that this is a position that should be modified over time, depending on local circumstances.
We can think of all the protective measures as layers  just like you wear layers when it's cold outside. The colder it is, the more you have to wear to stay warm. Some layers are better than others.
If there is a lot of virus in the community, the risk is high, and we need a lot of layers of protection. If the level of virus is low, we need fewer layers. The vaccine is the best layer we have, so once younger kids are vaccinated, it would be reasonable to discuss which other layers it can replace. In areas of low community transmission, and especially if other layers like testing are in place, it might be reasonable to reconsider masking. This is particularly true if all kids in a class are known to be vaccinated.
That said, it will take a while for kids to get the vaccine. There are also many parts of the country that have high community transmission. I wouldn't expect that masks can suddenly go once vaccines for younger kids are made available. Some schools already do not require masks, and, of course, just because masks aren't required doesn't mean that kids have to take them off.
CNN: What about other social activities  can vaccinated younger kids participate in more activities, including going to sleepovers and the movie theater?
Wen: That depends on the parents and the level of risk tolerance in the family. A lot of families have not been allowing younger children to participate in higher-risk activities because the kids are not yet vaccinated. Once kids are fully vaccinated, many parents might decide to add back certain activities. Remember that being fully vaccinated requires two doses, and then waiting until two weeks after the second dose.
Perhaps parents had pulled their kids out of basketball or soccer because these sports practices were being held indoors. Once kids are vaccinated, they might decide that the risk of exposure is now much lower and is therefore worth the benefit to the child.
If the child is vaccinated and is going to a sleepover with other vaccinated kids, that would also be much lower risk now than before the kids were vaccinated.
In fact, after vaccination, all activities  including going to the movies  will be much safer. Parents should evaluate the medical risks of their household and have a conversation with their children about what everyone can do once they are vaccinated. 
A family that has babies or kids 4 and younger, or lives with an immunocompromised elderly relative, may still decide to continue precautions, including avoiding crowded indoor settings with people of unknown vaccination status. On the other hand, a family that is now all fully vaccinated and generally healthy can choose to bring back many pre-pandemic activities.
CNN: Is the vaccine safe for kids ages 5 to 11? What kinds of side effects should they expect?
Wen: In a study of more than 2,000 children ages 5 to 11 years old, the vaccine has been found to be safe, with the same kinds of side effects as seen in adults. These side effects include sore arm, redness at the injection site, fatigue, fever, chills and headache. They generally are worst during the 24 hours following the vaccine, and they go away in a few days.
Importantly, there were no instances of myocarditis, or inflammation of the heart muscle, in the study. However, myocarditis is rare and may not be seen in a study of this size. It's possible that as more children are vaccinated, there may be some cases of myocarditis detected, as the inflammatory disease has been linked to the Pfizer vaccine, primarily among younger men under the age of 30. 
It's crucial to note that myocarditis also occurs with Covid-19, and the potential risk of myocarditis associated with the vaccine has to be weighed against the benefit of the vaccine in preventing a whole host of problems associated with the disease.
CNN: What about long-term side effects of the vaccine?
Wen: The Covid-19 vaccines have been given to hundreds of millions of people around the world since December. Side effects are seen in the first few weeks of administration, not months afterward. We also have experience with many other childhood immunizations, which follow the same pattern. Therefore, there is no scientific or physiological reason to believe that the vaccines would cause long-term side effects. On the other hand, we know that the coronavirus itself does result in long-term problems, including in children.
CNN: What about kids ages 5 to 11 who live with younger siblings who still aren't eligible for the vaccine? How should they still handle risk?
Wen: Parents should make a decision about what level of risk they are willing to tolerate. Many might continue to take additional precautions, but knowing that their vaccinated kids are better protected, they could decide to allow for some extracurriculars to return and some indoor activities to occur again, especially if their vaccinated kids are associating only with others who are fully vaccinated, too.
CNN: What would you say to parents who are still hesitant to give their kids the vaccine?
Wen: I understand! We as parents all want the best for our children. 
I think it's important to point out that children can and do get very ill from Covid-19. According to data presented at the FDA meeting on October 26, there have been 1.8 million cases of Covid-19 in the age group of 5 to 11 years old. More than 8,000 children in this age group have been hospitalized and, tragically, 143 have died. While many have had underlying conditions, about one-third of those kids with severe illness were generally healthy.

Everything we do for our kids is about weighing the risks and benefits. Consider the known risks of Covid-19 along with the benefits of the vaccines. For my family, we are very eager to get our young kids vaccinated when it's authorized for them, so that we can resume many activities we have put on hold out of concern for our kids. For many other families, there will be so much relief once their kids are able to be vaccinated and receive this excellent level of protection against a potentially deadly disease.
If you are unsure, it's always a good idea to speak with your pediatrician  and, in the meantime, let's make sure that all the adults and older children who are eligible to be vaccinated do so, too.

 (CNN)Students began flocking back to the six campuses of the University of Maine this fall hoping for a more normal college experience, one without shutdowns or Zoom classes.
As those tens of thousands of students returned to residence halls and full classrooms, university leaders hoped the measures they put in place would keep Covid-19 cases down and avoid widespread cases that shut down many campuses nationwide last spring.
University of Maine President Joan Ferrini-Mundy, who chairs the system's Science Advisory Board, told CNN they prepared a science-based, multifaceted approach with the help of a team that included an epidemiologist, a statistician, microbiologists and virologists.
As the semester began at the end of August, university officials were about to find out if it would work.
In September, cases in the heavily vaccinated state began to rise. Hospitals began filling up with numbers not seen since a surge in January, according to the state's Center for Disease Control & Prevention. The number of people needing ventilators reached all-time highs and intensive care units reached record numbers, according to state health data. All counties began to be classified as having high levels of transmission. 
And yet, throughout the University of Maine, cases remained extremely low and seemingly avoided the crush taking hold of the state. At the start of October, the campus system of more than 30,000 students and employees had a 1.5% positivity rate, compared to the state's rising 4.5% positivity rate. 
The university told CNN that the system has had 52 known Covid-19 cases among students or employees as of Wednesday. Forty-five of those were on the flagship campus in Orono. Zero cases were recorded at the University of Maine at Augusta, University of Maine Farmington and University of Maine at Presque Isle campuses.
So how did they do it? 
Ferrini-Mundy credits that multifront system -- known as the "Swiss cheese" model -- as a key defense against Covid-19. While each prevention measure, or layer of cheese has holes in it, when stacked together they create an effective defense.
Ferrini-Mundy knows a big part of it is not just the measures the campus put in place, but the willingness to adhere -- a situation that doesn't always exist in other settings.
"We've been able to control this through excellent behavior and compliance by our students," Ferrini-Mundy said.
Lucia Mullen, a senior analyst at Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, said the university's success shows two things. First, that this "Swiss cheese" model is the strongest plan to increase activities and social interactions while making sure transmission is low. 
"It also shows the difference like compliance and willingness can make in in bringing down cases," Mullen said. 
While there is always going to be exceptions and settings where the university model couldn't work, Mullen says it's a good example of success in a time of Covid-19 fatigue.
Vaccination efforts
One of the big reasons for the university system success is the rate of vaccination on campus compared with the rest of the state. Maine has a strong full dose vaccination rate of 74.4%, compared to the university's systemwide 88.3%.
But, state health officials have said in briefings, the Delta variant only needs a small window to create havoc. And that's mainly what happened among the unvaccinated population, according to Maine CDC Director Dr. Nirav D. Shah. Some pockets, especially rural areas, don't have vaccination rates on par with the state's average. 
"Folks are getting it in their day-to-day lives," Shah said in video message responding to the uptick in cases. "Maybe because they had coffee with a friend or had dinner with some friends at their house in smaller settings where the virus can travel easily from person to person. Right now, most of the new cases of Covid-19 that we are seeing are happening among unvaccinated people."
On the University of Maine campuses, a vaccine mandate seems to have helped protect students against the community transmission seen in the rest of the state. More and more students got vaccinated early in the semester, giving the campus a measure of protection, the university said.
As of Tuesday, 97.2% of residential students were in compliance. Across the system, including faculty, staff, and students off-campus that rate is 88.3%, according to Ferrini-Mundy. The mandate will officially be enforced beginning October 15.
A 'robust testing regime'
Any students not fully vaccinated or with an exemption must undergo weekly testing as part of what Ferrini-Mundy calls a "robust testing regime." The university has a lab on campuses that processes those tests.
"We get quick turnaround results and then we've got a robust contact tracing program that that follows up," she says. 
And the University of Maine, like hundreds of other campuses, is turning to wastewater testing in hopes of early detection of cases. Researchers have said they have high hopes for this testing, which they say can alert public health officials to trends in infections and doesn't depend on individuals getting tested. And because people excrete virus in feces before they show symptoms, it can serve as an early-warning system for outbreaks. 
"We really want to be sure that if there are asymptomatic cases, perhaps in vaccinated people who aren't being tested on our campus, that we have a couple of backup systems in place," Ferrini-Mundy said of the wastewater testing.
Mullen said such testing is an important component with testing unvaccinated students to help cut off the virus as soon as possible.
"We can identify (the virus) much sooner," Mullen said. "So, we stopped the potential chain of transmission, because instead of not identifying it until they've had time to infect others we identify it at the source."
Indoor masking
On top of that, Ferrini-Mundy touts their indoor masking policy in all facilities, including classrooms. 
Some state colleges with vaccine mandates are not requiring masking indoors, or only in residence halls. Some colleges have said their state's board of regents have not allowed them to enact mask or vaccine mandates.
"It sounds like this university has such a high compliance with mask use indoors, that's a major factor as well, because we're just presenting less opportunities for the virus to take hold and for people to be exposed," Mullen said.
Ferrini-Mundy credits the messaging throughout the system and faculty assistance in ensuring mask wearing is not only happening but happening the correct way.
"I just came away from a faculty meeting and some of the folks there were saying, 'I need to remind them every now and then the mask needs to go above the nose, and they're doing that, and the students comply,'" she said.
Ferrini-Mundy even noted that it isn't rare to see students masking outdoors, where it is not mandated. 
Doubling down
The university system is not resting on the current success, Ferrini-Mundy says, with some additional measures coming.
With concerns about sports, conferences and other events moving indoors when winter comes to Maine, there will be a requirement to show proof of vaccination or a negative test at a gathering with more than 250 people. Some campuses have already been doing that, but it will become a requirement next week, Ferrini-Mundy says.
And as the vaccine mandate takes place, the university is reaching out to the minority of people who have not either submitted proof or requested an exemption. Ferrini-Mundy says as of Tuesday, that was 708 people across the whole university system. 
The university is making phone calls, sending text messages, e-mails, app reminders, holding one-on-one support sessions on Zoom and a Covid-19 hotline to try and get them all into compliance.
Then, the hammer will drop.
"They won't be able to register for spring semester if they don't do this and come October 31, we actually will be withdrawing them from their courses," Ferrini-Mundy says. 
Creating a bubble that ensures good health
Ferrini-Mundy cannot help but praise all partners, including students, for creating an atmosphere that seems to have insulated them from widespread cases for now. 
Maine's Center for Disease Control & Prevention heralded the university as an "excellent partner throughout Maine's pandemic response."
"Its leaders have consistently put public health ahead of politics and taken proactive steps to limit virus transmission on campuses and within the wider university system community," the agency said in a statement.
Ferrini-Mundy believes the student buy-in due to the struggles of learning throughout the pandemic is a big reason for the university's success.
"We had a disruptive year last year --  our students weren't able to be here fully. They were engaged in a variety of hybrid kinds of remote courses which we are very grateful that we were able to do," she said.
"But the feeling I'm getting here as I talk to students out and around on the campus is they really want to be back. They want to make this work."

 (CNN)Vaccine advisers to the US Food and Drug Administration meet Thursday and Friday of this week to tackle the next round of questions about booster vaccines for Covid-19 -- and they'll see the first trickle of data on mix-and-match boosters.
On Thursday, they'll focus on Moderna's application to add a booster dose to its two-dose vaccine schedule. On Friday, they'll consider Johnson & Johnson's request for boosters. 
Only after they've decided those two questions will members of the FDA's Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee, or VRBPAC, turn to mix-and-match boosters. It's been one of the biggest ongoing questions about vaccines since three different products hit the US -- is it safe, and even desirable, to mix different vaccine types?
Researchers have been trying a variety of combinations.
"We first started off looking at people who have previously received Johnson & Johnson, Moderna and Pfizer and boosting those with an additional dose of Moderna vaccine," Dr. Angela Branche, an assistant professor at the University of Rochester School of Medicine who is helping run some of the clinical trials mixing booster doses, told CNN. The researchers have also tried boosting volunteers with Pfizer's and Johnson & Johnson's vaccine.
Mixing boosters can produce a robust immune response, the National Institutes of Health-study team report in a preprint study online Wednesday. The study, which included 458 people, has not yet been peer-reviewed or published.
Regardless of which vaccine people got first, adding a booster brought antibody levels to levels that could be expected to provide 90% protection or higher, the researchers reported. For the J&J vaccine, that wold be higher than the efficacy seen in original trials.
"Our study has limitations. It was not designed to directly compare responses between different booster regimens," the researchers cautioned.
The study also found it appears safe for people to get a booster of a different brand or even type from their original dose.
Side effects were similar to what people experienced with the initial shot. Half of the study participants experienced some effects including pain at the injection site, tiredness, nausea, chills, headache and muscle pain. Most symptoms were felt one to three days after the booster. None of the side effects were serious.
"
Which boost is best?
Discussion during the meeting will include whether there is a difference in the quality and quantity of the antibodies generated with boosting someone with a different type of vaccine -- and whether waiting a different length of time matters.
Pfizer was given emergency use authorization for a booster dose of its vaccine last month for certain people who are at least six months out from their initial two doses.
Moderna has worded its authorization request to mirror the EUA granted to Pfizer. It's asking for EUA for a half-dose, but for a booster in people who got their first two doses at least six months ago and who are either 65 and older, at high risk of severe Covid-19 or those whose exposure at work or in their setting puts them at high risk of serious complications from infection.
Moderna has far less data than Pfizer did showing that immunity from its vaccine is waning. In fact, several studies have indicated Moderna's vaccine provides somewhat stronger protection than Pfizer's does.
One head-to-head study led by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found Moderna's vaccine was slightly more effective than Pfizer's in real-life use in keeping people out of the hospital.
Does immunity wane with Moderna's vaccine?
FDA staff were circumspect in documents posted ahead of Thursday's meeting. "Some real world effectiveness studies have suggested declining efficacy of Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine over time against symptomatic infection or against the Delta variant, while others have not. However, overall, data indicate that currently US-licensed or authorized COVID-19 vaccines still afford protection against severe COVID-19 disease and death in the United States," they wrote.
"There are many potentially relevant studies, but FDA has not independently reviewed or verified the underlying data or their conclusions."
As with Pfizer's application, Israeli researchers will brief on what's been happening there. Israel has been doing in-depth studies on waning immunity, although most people in Israel have received Pfizer's vaccine. Dr. Sharon Alroy-Preiss, director of public health services at Israel's Ministry of Health and Ron Milo, a professor at Israel's Weizmann Institute, both of whom spoke in support of Pfizer's booster application, are scheduled to speak to VRBPAC Thursday.
The committee will vote on Moderna's application and is scheduled to adjourn by 4:45 p.m. ET Thursday.
Johnson & Johnson has been less precise in its application for booster doses.
The company has said it wants to leave the details up to the FDA. 
"Based on the recent data, it can be assumed that the administration of the booster dose will result in increased protection against symptomatic infection, increased strength and breadth of immune responses against current variants, and increase of the magnitude of protection against severe disease across populations," the company says in its application.
"The booster dose can also increase the probability of protection against future variants of concern. A booster dose is recommended at 6 months or later, based on the strength of the immune responses, although a booster dose may be administered as early as 2 months. The need for a booster dose and/or its timing will depend on the local/epidemiological situation and the needs of individuals/specific populations."
The FDA said it has not had time to verify J&J's analysis and would be asking the committee to decide whether the company had submitted enough information to recommend boosters at either two or six months.
The committee is scheduled to vote by 3:15  p.m. ET on Friday on the question of whether to recommend authorizing a booster dose of Johnson & Johnson's Janssen vaccine, and if so, for whom and when. 
Waiting might pay off
"In general, the longer you wait, the better the boost will be," Dr. Dan Barouch of Harvard Medical School and the director of the Center for Virology and Vaccine Research at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center told CNN. Barouch is scheduled to speak to VRBPAC on Friday.
The committee will reconvene at 3:30 p.m. Friday to discuss the question of mix and match boosters -- although a vote is not scheduled on that question.
Rochester's Branche said she thinks the data may indicate that mixing vaccine types for a booster might offer an advantage. 
But Barouch, who has also been studying mixed booster doses, said there's not enough data yet to say.
"I do think that there's a lot of potential for mix and match regimens, but the data sets to date are very small," he told CNN.
Both Moderna and Pfizer use mRNA technology -- genetic material called messenger RNA delivered directly to cells to instruct the body to make little pieces of the virus to stimulate an immune response. The Janssen vaccine is a vector vaccine, using another virus called an adenovirus that's crippled so it cannot replicate, to carry in pieces of the coronavirus to stimulate the response.
These two different delivery methods stimulate the immune system in slightly different ways, Branche said.
"I think the data will show that boosting is certainly likely to be very effective in conferring additional and longer protection," she said.

Sancia Dalley is senior vice president of strategic partnerships and investor engagement at Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights, an international social justice organization based in Washington, DC. Christina Hollenback is CEO of Justice Capital, an advisory and investment firm that invests toward safe, thriving Black, Brown and systems-impacted communities. The views expressed in this commentary are their own. Read more opinion articles on CNN. 
 (CNN)Nearly 60 years after Alabama stood in the national spotlight for its resistance in ending racial segregation in American schools, the state's current governor, Kay Ivey, signed into law earlier this month a string of bills that will use coronavirus relief funds to build new prisons.
In a state where 28% of residents are Black, yet constitute 43% of people in jail and 54% of people in prison, according to the Vera Institute of Justice, this use of relief funding is an outrageous and discriminatory action and demonstrates an appalling lack of progress in the matter of racial justice for the state and the country.
During a special legislative session late last month, state lawmakers, against calls from their own communities, quickly pushed through a measure approving the use of $400 million in Covid-19 federal relief funds to build new prisons and renovate others as part of a massive $1.3 billion boondoggle.
This comes months after a group of investors, business leaders and social justice advocates successfully pressured Barclays, KeyBanc and others to pull out of financing a $630 million taxable municipal bond offering by the Alabama Department of Corrections that would have built two new prison facilities with the private prison firm CoreCivic.
What's more, it comes as the state faces a US Department of Justice lawsuit over its notoriously violent prisons, alleging predominantly Black and Brown people are repeatedly subjected to unconstitutional use of force. 
Despite this, and despite outcry from the local Communities Not Prisons coalition, as well as other investors and advocates, who have cited the move as both cruel and fiscally irresponsible, Gov. Ivey and Alabama lawmakers remain hellbent on building prisons -- and using Covid relief funds to help do it-- rather than mitigating a pandemic in a state that has only in recent weeks climbed out of its deficit of ICU beds, and where 79% of hospitalized adults are unvaccinated. 
Covid relief funds should be spent to hire and pay health workers, expand hospital facilities and beds to care for critically ill patients, support public health campaigns to increase vaccination rates and much more. Not put more people in cages.
Yet, Ivey has defended the move as a fiscally conservative one, noting that, "while our prison infrastructure is broken, our ability to govern is not." 
That convoluted logic must be quickly turned on its head. Using federal relief dollars to build prisons sets a dangerous precedent, enabling, even encouraging, other states to follow suit. Moreover, it will ensure that vital pandemic relief in Alabama (and potentially across the nation, if other states take Ivey's lead) remains unaddressed -- causing perhaps catastrophic long-term economic and human consequences.
The move is a vivid example of a troubling pattern by Republicans in conservative bastions to use the money for politically charged wish lists. In Galveston County, Texas, county commissioners are spending $6.6 million in Covid relief funds for security on the US-Mexico border wall. In Wyoming, one GOP lawmaker suggested using the funds to push back against President Joe Biden's vaccine mandate for businesses.
In 1963, Robert F. Kennedy, then attorney general, helped harness the power of his brother John F. Kennedy's presidential bully pulpit to push through and enforce groundbreaking changes in racial relations, actions that ultimately led to the introduction of civil rights legislation.
Biden must break his silence on this egregious misuse of taxpayer dollars, particularly in Alabama, a state that is woefully behind the curve on all aspects of social services, from public health access and care, to wastewater infrastructure to education for children and more, and that accounts for one of the highest poverty rates in the country.
Building more prisons does not make communities safe, and it never has. Instead, it reinforces the trap of our nation's racially biased criminal legal system, which disproportionately draws those who are poor, Black, Brown and Indigenous into the system, inflicting upon them physical and psychological harm in the process, separating and destabilizing families, creating barriers to employment and erecting systems that result in recidivism. 
Bailing out the Alabama Department of Corrections by using Covid relief dollars sorely needed elsewhere feeds and reinforces the corruption and mismanagement that has plagued the agency for decades. This includes human rights abuses inflicted on the largely Black prison population.
Only by explicitly prohibiting any state from using federal dollars for these purposes, will we finally center communities of color who have been disproportionately affected by the crushing impacts of Covid-19 to recover and achieve economic prosperity.
Inaction on this issue is nothing more than injustice.

Jill Filipovic is a journalist based in New York and author of the book "OK Boomer, Let's Talk: How My Generation Got Left Behind." Follow her on Twitter. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely her own. View more opinion articles on CNN.
 (CNN)Texas has long fancied itself the land of the free, a Wild West of wide-open spaces, good BBQ and libertarianism. 
It's also the land of shameful hypocrisy. 
This week, Gov. Greg Abbott signed an executive order that bars all entities in Texas, including private employers, from mandating Covid-19 vaccination for their workers. Abbott has already banned schools from mandating mask-wearing, and has barred private businesses from requiring proof of vaccination to enter. 
All of this is done under the cover of "freedom" -- freedom, apparently, to sicken and potentially kill your colleagues and neighbors. It's a kind of freedom from state interference that does not apply to Texas women and girls. After all, this same Texas governor signed a law banning most abortions in the state, with no exception for rape or incest. 
To quote from a Women's March sign that has now gone viral: "Texas won't make a 12-year-old wear a mask to school but they will force her to have a baby." 
The Texas abortion law is in full effect and is still making its way through the courts (the Supreme Court refused to halt the law from going into effect; a district court then hit pause, only to have the conservative Fifth Circuit overrule that decision). But Abbott's anti-abortion and Covid rules taken together paint a stark portrait of what it now means to be "pro-life": Willing to go to great lengths to preserve the life of a 6-week-old embryo, but refusing to take basic steps to protect the well-being of women and girls, or the lives of Texans after they're born. Nearly 70,000 Texans have died of Covid, many of them vulnerable: The sick and the elderly. 
And when we get right down to it, Texas seems less concerned with fetal life than controlling women.
Pregnant women face particularly serious risks if they are unvaccinated and contract Covid-19. One study in England found that nearly 20% of critically ill patients in that country are pregnant and unvaccinated. The CDC is clear that while vaccination is not any riskier for people who are pregnant than for people who are not, contracting Covid is much more dangerous for those who are pregnant: It increases the chance of death by 70%, and is tied to preterm and stillbirths. 
So where are the pro lifers who should be interested in saving these babies and their mothers?
It seems that too many of them -- including Abbott -- are more interested in legally forcing women and girls to carry pregnancies while also forcing private employers to bend to the right's political will. And they aren't even willing to simply butt out and do what conservatives often demand, which is to let the free market work its magic.
Instead, they are directly interfering. They are making it illegal for private employers to employ the best practices for promoting the health and safety of their workers. And they are making it illegal for private employers to choose to take common sense steps to protect the public from a highly contagious and potentially deadly disease. 
In most other cases, the Republican Party is outraged at government encroachment into private business. They have opposed anti-discrimination laws because, they say, some of those laws infringe upon "freedom." 
The Trump White House's deregulation spree also sought to maximize employers' rights and profit at the expense of worker safety, health and pay. Basic rules on workplace injury and illness record-keeping were rolled back, as were rules that made it easier for workers to save for retirement and allowed the unemployed access to their benefits. And the Republican Party's efforts to decimate unions and curtail worker power and organizing are decades old and well-documented. 
It's crucial to understand the Texas Covid rules in this context. Greg Abbott and his Republican Party are not instituting these rules because they have a deep ideological dedication to workers' rights or bodily autonomy or individual freedom.
They are instituting these rules because the GOP has managed to politicize a pandemic and to gut the public's trust in public health guidance. They are putting the stupidest of politics above the lives of all Texans -- and then having the nerve to call themselves "pro life."

 (CNN)A booster dose of the Pfizer/BioNTech coronavirus vaccine was found to have a high efficacy -- 95.6% -- against Covid-19 in a Phase 3 trial, the companies announced on Thursday. They noted that "efficacy was consistent irrespective of age, sex, race, ethnicity or comorbid conditions."
 The trial included more than 10,000 fully vaccinated people, age 16 and older, who randomly received either the 30-microgram booster dose of vaccine or a placebo. The median time between completing their initial second dose of vaccine and receiving a booster or placebo was about 11 months, the companies said.
Pfizer and BioNTech reported that during the study, there were 109 Covid-19 cases among people who received a placebo and five cases among those who received the third dose of vaccine. The companies noted that the vaccine efficacy they found, of 95.6%, reflects that reduction of disease among those who received a booster shot versus those who did not. These are the first results from a randomized, controlled Covid-19 vaccine booster trial, the companies said, and they reflect a period when the highly contagious Delta variant was prevalent.
"These results provide further evidence of the benefits of boosters as we aim to keep people well-protected against this disease," Albert Bourla, Pfizer's chairman and chief executive officer, said in a news release Thursday.
"In addition to our efforts to increase global access and uptake among the unvaccinated, we believe boosters have a critical role to play in addressing the ongoing public health threat of this pandemic," Bourla said. "We look forward to sharing these data with health authorities and working together to determine how they can be used to support the rollout of booster doses around the world."
In September, the US Food and Drug Administration authorized a booster dose of the Pfizer/BioNtech coronavirus vaccine for emergency use in adults 65 and older, adults at high risk of severe Covid-19 and adults with frequent exposure to the coronavirus through their work.
Then on Wednesday, the FDA authorized the Pfizer/BioNTech booster for those who may be eligible but are fully vaccinated with either the Moderna or Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccines, as a mix-and-match approach.
Now, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's vaccine advisers, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, meet Thursday to decide on whether to recommend the FDA's recent mix-and-match authorization -- as well as the authorization of Moderna and J&J boosters -- and then the CDC director will decide whether to sign off on ACIP's guidance

This is the weekly edition of CNN's coronavirus newsletter. Look out for your roundup every Wednesday. If you haven't subscribed yet, sign up here.
 (CNN)In a decision closely watched by parents and teachers across America, a panel of independent experts advising the US Food and Drug Administration on Tuesday recommended that regulators authorize Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine for 5-year-olds to 11-year-olds, a group that numbers 28 million.    
The advisory committee found that the benefits of the shot outweighed the risks, voting 17-0 in favor with one abstention. If the FDA follows the panel's advice, and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention agrees, shots could be rolled out to younger children as early as next week. 
The move came after federal regulators and scientists argued that thousands of children between 5 and 11 had been hospitalized with Covid-19, and nearly 100 children had died over the course of the pandemic.  
Covid-19 "is the eighth highest killer of kids in this age group over the past year," said Dr. Amanda Cohn, a top vaccine expert at the CDC. "Use of this vaccine will prevent deaths, will prevent ICU admissions and will prevent significant long-term adverse outcomes in children." 

Data from Pfizer showed that the vaccine was 90.7% effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19 in children aged 5 to 11. Still, some advisory committee members appeared troubled about making the decision based on limited safety data, circling around the risks of a rare heart condition known as myocarditis. 
Pfizer has cut its dose for younger children to one-third of the strength given to people 12 and older. Experts say the lower dose should reduce the risk of side effects. 
A pediatric Covid-19 vaccine has been highly anticipated by many parents anxious to protect their children at school, and has become an increasingly pressing issue as holiday gatherings approach. 
A handful of countries have already authorized Covid-19 vaccines for kids. In September, Cuba became the first country in the world to vaccinate children as young as 2. Chile, China, El Salvador and the United Arab Emirates have also approved vaccines for younger children.  
Many European countries are still weighing up whether to vaccinate children under 12. Meanwhile, in much of the world, vaccinating under-12s is not an option because of a lack of doses. 
YOU ASKED. WE ANSWERED 
Q: How can I help prepare my child for the vaccine? 
A: If your child isn't exactly thrilled about getting vaccinated, there are steps you can take to help them prepare. Kelly Foy and Pat McLarney, both child life education specialists at Connecticut Children's Medical Center, shared their best tips for easing vaccine fears just in time for the rollout:    
Ages 5 to 7: 
Give a brief step-by-step description of what to expect. Rely on the power of play. Little kids process their emotions through play, so send some stuffed animals or dolls to the doctor for their vaccines before it's time for the kids to go! Keep their hands busy and their minds occupied to work through their anticipatory anxiety. Apply ice to the injection site before and after the shot. 

Ages 8 to 11: 
Kids in this age group might have more detailed questions. Give honest answers and seek additional information if you aren't sure how to answer. Empathize with them and listen to their concerns. Empower your big kids to write a list of questions to ask the nurse or doctor at the appointment to ease their worries. Have your child create a playlist to listen to during the appointment. Plan to watch an interesting video (cue it up so you don't have to search!) or use a favorite app. 

Send your questions here. Are you a health care worker fighting Covid-19? Message us on WhatsApp about the challenges you're facing: +1 347-322-0415. 
READS OF THE WEEK 
Europe is entering its second pandemic winter 
The Covid-19 crisis is "far from finished," the World Health Organization's emergency committee warned on Tuesday, calling for research into next generation vaccines and long-term action to control the pandemic. 
Nowhere is that grim reality more acutely felt than in Europe, which is entering its second pandemic winter despite the widespread availability of vaccines, Tara John writes. Europe is the only part of the world reporting an increase in new Covid-19 cases, which have been on the rise for three consecutive weeks. The suffering is worst in Eastern Europe and Russia, which are battling mounting deaths and cases fueled by vaccine hesitancy. On Tuesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin imposed a curfew on hospitality events to tackle the spread of the virus. Ukraine, meanwhile, has been moved to the CDC's highest level of Covid-19 travel risk, as it reports its highest level of daily cases since the pandemic began. 
Caseloads may be high in some Western European countries, but thanks to their progress on vaccinations, Covid-19 deaths and hospitalizations have remained largely flat compared to their Eastern counterparts. But while health experts say that crisis levels in Western Europe won't reach what we saw in the past, the worsening wave in the United Kingdom shows that vaccines are not a silver bullet. 
Filthy, used medical gloves imported into the US 
In early 2020, demand for personal protective equipment shot through the roof as the pandemic gripped the planet. Medical grade nitrile gloves, used by doctors in patient examinations, turned into a precious commodity overnight -- and the market to buy them became a dark underworld.  
A months-long CNN investigation has found that tens of millions of counterfeit and second-hand nitrile gloves -- some visibly soiled and blood-stained -- have reached the United States, according to import records and distributors who bought the gloves. Criminal investigations are now underway by the authorities in the US and Thailand. 
Yet, despite the potential risk to frontline healthcare workers and patients, US authorities have struggled to get a handle on the illicit trade -- in part because import regulations for protective medical equipment were temporarily suspended at the height of the pandemic -- and remain suspended today. 
Your doctor may not know about this life-saving Covid treatment 
Mayra Arana was worried. She had developed a "breakthrough" infection of Covid-19 and feared the virus might kill her, since her immune system was weak after years of treatment for leukemia. After her family physician told her there wasn't much she could do besides rest, she turned to her oncologist for advice. It turned out there was a treatment for early-stage Covid-19: monoclonal antibodies. 
"The next day I could feel a difference. Two days later I could get out of bed and clean the house and feed my children," Arana said. "I really do think the antibodies saved my life." 
An investigation by CNN shows Arana is not alone in her challenge to find monoclonal antibodies. Many patients who qualify for the drugs say their doctors never mentioned them, even though it has been nearly a year since antibodies were first authorized by the US FDA, they're the only treatment for early Covid, and studies have shown they can dramatically reduce the risk of hospitalization and death.   
TOP TIP
Get the candy corn ready
CDC Director Rochelle Walensky and Anthony Fauci, America's top infectious-disease expert, have encouraged kids to get outside on Halloween and enjoy trick-or-treating -- even those who are still too young for vaccination. 
"I would say, 'Put on those costumes, stay outside and enjoy your trick-or-treating,'" Walensky told Fox News' Chris Wallace on Sunday, when asked what advice she would give ahead of the holiday weekend. "If you are spread out doing your trick-or-treating, that should be very safe for your children," she said, adding that she would avoid large gatherings.  
CNN Medical Analyst Dr. Leana Wen has some more tips on how to celebrate safely, whether your family is fully vaccinated or not.   

 (CNN)An Indiana couple says they took their family to get their annual flu shot at the local Walgreens, but all of them, including their 4- and 5-year-old, were given a Covid-19 vaccine by mistake. Mistakes like this can happen, but they're incredibly rare, public health experts say. 
Pharmacists and other specialists who give the shots say there are dozens of safeguards built into the system to limit the possibility of human error. And, in the case of Covid-19 vaccines, if someone is getting a second dose, for example, and accidentally gets a Moderna vaccine, when they had Pfizer's first, that likely won't cause side effects or other health problems, according to findings from an ongoing National Institutes of Health study.
"A single bad situation like that gets a lot of coverage, but hundreds of millions of doses and second doses have been administered in a very effective, accurate and careful way," said Jennifer Kertanis, the director of health for the Farmington Valley Health District in Connecticut who has overseen many public vaccination efforts. "While these types of mistakes are really unfortunate, they don't happen very often and people administering these vaccines are doing everything they can to put steps in place to reduce that potential for human error."  
The CEO of the National Association of County and City Health Officials, Lori Freeman, said vaccine mistakes like this are as "rare as a plane crash, thankfully." 
'Checking, double-checking and even triple-checking'
It's unclear what went wrong in the case of the Indiana family. 
Joshua and Alexandra Price said they learned about the mistake from the pharmacist who called them about 90 minutes after they received the shots. The couple had already been vaccinated against Covid-19 earlier in the year, and their children aren't old enough to get a Covid-19 vaccine yet, as they're only authorized for children 12 and older. The vaccine they received was three times the dose being considered for children's vaccines. The kids experienced side effects from the shots, the family said, and are currently being treated by a cardiologist. 
A Walgreens spokesperson said the company could not comment on a particular case due to privacy concerns, but released a statement that emphasized safety was a "top priority." 
"Our multi-step vaccination procedure includes several safety checks to minimize the chance of human error and we have reviewed this process with our pharmacy staff in order to prevent such occurrences," a statement from the company said. 
It's those safety steps that vaccine managers said are crucial to protect people who get a vaccine, particularly when more kinds of vaccines are being added to the mix, like Covid-19 boosters and flu shots, and possibly Covid-19 shots for kids that would require a different kind of dosage.
"The system that pharmacies use is very similar to what they use in medication," said Mitch Rothholz, the head of immunization policy at the American Pharmacists Association. "It's checking, double-checking and even triple-checking everything." 
"It also involves putting systems in place that limit human error," Rothholz said. 
Avoiding vaccine mix-ups
Vaccine safety starts with how the product is stored and labeled, Rothholz said. If products look similar, stores will keep the vaccines in different parts of storage. 
At mass vaccine clinics with multiple vaccines, people seeking different shots will wait in separate sections. People who need a Moderna shot, for example, will be filtered into one section of the site, another section will be for Pfizer, another for Johnson & Johnson. Each section will be clearly marked with signs.
Often, Freeman said, clinics will provide just one kind of vaccine at a time to avoid any possible confusion.
Freeman said there is a lot of thought and redundancy that goes into giving out a vaccine. At many clinics, people will be asked to pre-register and then when they get to the clinic, a greeter will verify the person's information. Then there's registration, and then another check when the person administers the shot.
Some personal responsibility is also involved, the vaccine managers said. A vaccinator can steer that with a conversation as they give someone the vaccine. 
"When I give a vaccine, I always say 'OK, I'm giving you this particular vaccine. Is this correct?'" Rothholz said. "If I'm giving out more than one vaccine at a time, I'll be sure to give one in each arm and repeat what I'm doing, and say, 'I'm giving you your Covid vaccine in your left and your flu vaccine in your right,'" Rothholz said.
Rothholz urged people to bring their vaccine cards with them as an additional check. That way, the vaccinator can reconfirm that the vaccine they are giving the person comes from the same manufacturer if it is a second or third shot.
What happens after a rare mix-up
In the extremely rare circumstance that someone gets the wrong vaccine, Freeman recommends clear communication on behalf of the person who gave the vaccine and on behalf of the person who received one.
Communication should happen immediately, and the person who got the wrong vaccine should seek care right away -- and follow up to get the vaccine they should have received in the first place.
How much the wrong shot would impact a person's health depends on a number of factors, Freeman said. If a small child gets a larger Covid-19 vaccine dose meant for an adult, they may feel side effects, for example. If someone is allergic to one of the mRNA vaccines, that could be an issue.
But if someone gets a Moderna vaccine when they were supposed to be getting a Pfizer booster, they are unlikely to notice. There's no recommendation for now to mix Covid-19 vaccines, but early study suggests no side effects result from mixing vaccine types -- especially the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, which use the same mRNA technology. 
Ultimately, it's always good to talk to a doctor in the unlikely event that a mix-up would happen, she said.
"I think you just want to get it checked out," Freeman said.
In the case of the Indiana family, Dr. Peter Hotez, dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, said the children should "probably do OK." 
"It is concerning they got a higher dose and they have to be monitored, but they should do really well," he said. "There is a lot of data out there now in 5-year-olds and older." 
Pediatricians who have been testing Covid-19 vaccines in younger children tried a variety of doses, including full adult doses. And children 12 and up have been receiving the adult dose safely.
As for the parents, getting the Covid-19 vaccine would be like getting a booster shot. 
"The big concern there is that it may not be as effective as it would be if they received it after six months," Hotez said.
Vaccine maker Moderna asked the FDA to authorize a booster that is half the dose of the initial two shots. To prevent mix-ups, it plans to prepare a "Dear Health Care Provider" letter explaining how the different doses will need to be administered. "We recognize that this will require some education and enforcement," the company told the FDA on Thursday.
From a provider perspective, Rothholz said, he wants to reassure people that even with all the complicated logistics of administering multiple different kinds of vaccines, providers put a lot of thought into the safety systems they use. And with the Covid-19 pandemic, they've had a lot of practice refining the vaccination process. 
"It's a lot of moving parts, but we have experience with this," Rothholz said. The clinic in his community has given 50,000 vaccines without any trouble, he added.
"We've got this down to a science." 

 (CNN)Jessica Desfosses shared the final heartrending text messages she exchanged with her police officer husband in the days before he died from Covid-19. 
"Commercial just came on tv a casket saying take Covid seriously... 0 consideration for those of us fighting for every breath," Stephen Desfosses wrote in a series of exchanges that began last Christmas Eve as his condition steadily deteriorated in a Massachusetts hospital.
"Your husband is going to [be] changed forever no matter what happens...my life has flashed before my eyes and man it's scary," he wrote in another message, which his wife posted to Facebook last summer. 
Det. Sgt. Stephen Desfosses, 52, a veteran of more than 30 years with the Norton Police Department, died on January 13. He was one of at least 231 officers who died of Covid-19 this year, according to the Officer Down Memorial Page (ODMP).  
There were 245 law enforcement deaths from Covid-19 in 2020, according to ODMP. 
The coronavirus has become the leading cause of death for officers despite law enforcement being among the first groups eligible to receive the vaccine at the end of 2020. The total stands at 476 Covid-19 related deaths since the start of the pandemic, compared to 94 from gunfire in the same period. 
"If you are serious about your commitment to protect the public ... and if you are serious about your personal commitments to your family, then that should be enough," Jessica Desfosses said in a plea for police officers to get vaccinated.  
Her appeal comes as law enforcement officers and their unions across the country have resisted vaccine mandates despite the Delta variant-fueled resurgence of Covid-19 and effectiveness of the shots in preventing severe cases and death. 
Reasons cited for the vaccine resistance among law enforcement officers range from disinformation to distrust in the science of the vaccines. 
The debate mirrors growing tension nationally between unions and employers as cities and businesses seek to enforce vaccine mandates. 
"You're not drafted into this job. This is something you volunteer for," said Charles Ramsey, a former Washington, DC police chief and CNN law enforcement analyst. "You understand when you take the job it's going to require some sacrifice on your part in a lot of different ways."
Police unions challenge Covid mandates

In Chicago, up to half the rank-and-file officers in the nation's second largest police department face being placed on unpaid leave as their union and Mayor Lori Lightfoot clash over a city requirement that officers disclose their vaccine status.
Lightfoot on Friday accused police union president John Catanzara of trying to "induce an insurrection" by telling officers to ignore a deadline to report vaccine status. 
The city filed a complaint alleging the union was "encouraging a work stoppage or strike." A Cook County Circuit judge ruled Friday night that Catanzara should not make public statements encouraging  members to not comply with the vaccination policy.
Catanzara "has never engaged in, supported, or encouraged a work stoppage," according to a union statement on Friday. 
Chicago officers had a deadline of midnight Thursday to disclose their vaccine status or be placed on unpaid leave, Catanzara said earlier this week.
Lightfoot said the city would take the weekend to check with officers who haven't complied. She said officers should report for duty until they're told by supervisors that they've been placed on leave.
Earlier this month, the former president of the union from 2014 to 2017 died of Covid-19. 
In Miami, officers are resisting a vaccine mandate. In Pittsburgh, the police chief sent out emails encouraging officers to protect themselves as the Delta variant sent Covid-19 cases soaring. 
In Seattle, the police department had "all non-patrol sworn personnel, detectives, training, support staff" ready to respond to emergency calls ahead of Monday's vaccination mandate deadline, said Sgt. Randy Huserik, a spokesman. 
The Seattle mayor's office said nearly 140 officers were unvaccinated or hadn't sought an exemption. Huserik said about 320 officers had already left the force since the beginning of 2020. 
Seattle could begin the process of separating officers from the department after the deadline, according to Mike Solan, police union president.
"If we lose what appears to be over 300 people because of this mandate, this public safety crisis we're experiencing will look like child's play," Solan said. 
Loss of 'outstanding officer' hits home
Across the US, law enforcement leaders have pleaded with officers who remain hesitant to get the shot. Still, many unions and their member officers continue to push back. 
"It's a right to obviously get vaccinated. It's an individual right and I firmly still believe in that," said Dan Yancey, chief of the Owasso Police Department in Oklahoma. "But I would certainly encourage people to do that."
In Baker, Louisiana, outside of Baton Rouge, the Covid-19 death last August of Lt. DeMarcus Dunn prompted many colleagues to get vaccinated, according to Police Chief Carl Dunn.   
"He lost his father at a very young age and it was a village that raised him," Chief Dunn said of the officer. 
"And when you talk about an outstanding officer, an outstanding citizen, an outstanding person that always gave back, it struck us. It was a big void in this department to lose an outstanding officer like that."
Before the lieutenant's death on August 13, about 70% of the police force was unvaccinated. Now, 95% of the city's 40 officers have received the shot, according to the chief. 
"The point I try to get across is, this pandemic, it supersedes any kind of political, any kind of beliefs, anything that you have that makes you reluctant to get vaccinated," Chief Dunn said.
The national police union is encouraging vaccinations but opposes mandates. 
Catanzara has framed the issue as a labor dispute.
"We are going to keep fighting this mandate and this dictatorship," said Catanzara, president of the Chicago Fraternal Order of Police, echoing the sentiments of union leaders around the country.  
"You would think that there is no crime in this city to worry about. You would think that there is no murder, no robberies, no guns being fired."
Late last month, hundreds of Washington State Patrol employees requested religious and medical vaccination exemptions one day after the agency announced the Covid-19 death of a trooper.  
Washington state employees must be fully vaccinated by Monday. The mandate affects 60,000 state employees and 40,000 health care workers.
"We invest quite a bit with the vetting and training these individuals. We don't want to lose them as friends or lose them because of Covid," said Chris Loftis, Washington State Patrol spokesman.
Widow gets copies of vaccination cards
Michael Weiskopf, 52, a police officer in St. Petersburg, Florida, died on August 27 after battling Covid-19 for about a month. He was an 18-year law enforcement veteran. 
"This was horrible and it did not have to happen," said his widow, Karen Weiskopf. "He was so strong. He was so healthy... He was my best friend. Perfect husband."
Karen Weiskopf said she's vaccinated but her husband was reluctant. She tried several times to convince him. 
"He wasn't sure what was in the vaccine... I felt like Mike did not get vaccinated because he didn't have all the facts," she said. "There's a lot of information just kind of moving around... Science leaves the picture. It just becomes chatter." 
Karen Weiskopf believes her husband's death served as a warning to other vaccine-reluctant officers. 
"To this day I still get letters. I get calls," she said. "I'll get copies of people's vaccination cards in the mailbox that I don't know." 
Jessica Desfosses wants to turn her unspeakable loss into an opportunity to save lives. 
"It's absolutely as bad as you would imagine to be raising two small girls without their dad," she said of her late husband, Stephen, who "wanted to be first in line for that vaccine" but never got the chance.
"And if he had had the choice to give himself that extra protection so he could continue to serve the public and still come home to his family, he absolutely would have done it."
Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly spelled the last name of Seattle police union president Mike Solan.
This story was reported by CNN's Ryan Young, Jason Morris, Priya Krishnakumar, Peter Nickeas, Claudia Dominguez and Ray Sanchez. It was written by Sanchez. 
Colin Powell, the first Black US secretary of state whose leadership in several Republican administrations helped shape American foreign policy in the last years of the 20th century and the early years of the 21st, died from complications from Covid-19, his family said. He was 84.
He was the country's first Black national security adviser when he served at the end of Ronald Reagan's presidency, and he was the youngest chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President George H.W. Bush.
Powell's popularity soared during the 1991 Gulf War, when he became one of the administration's most trusted spokesmen. He was awarded a Congressional Gold Medal in March 1991 "in recognition of his exemplary performance in planning and coordinating" the US response to Iraq's invasion.
He became George W. Bush's first Cabinet selection, and as Bush's top diplomat, he was tasked with building international support for the War on Terror. In 2003, he delivered a speech before the United Nations in which he presented evidence that the US intelligence community said proved Iraq had misled inspectors and hid weapons of mass destruction. He later called his UN speech a "blot" that will forever be on his record.
Take a look at other stories that made headlines from October 14-21, as well as some photos that just caught our eye.
CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta is a practicing neurosurgeon and the author of the new book "World War C: Lessons from the Covid-19 Pandemic and How to Prepare for the Next One."
 (CNN)In today's highly segmented media world, most of the people who watch and listen to me every day on CNN have already received and accepted the message about the utility of vaccines, the importance of masks and how we can all work together to put an end to this pandemic. So I realized that if I was serious about trying to communicate public health, I needed to go to a less comfortable place. I needed to go into the lion's den and accept an invitation to sit down with Joe Rogan for more than three hours.
I don't think I have ever had a conversation that long with anyone. Seriously -- think about that. We sat in a windowless podcast booth with two sets of headphones and microphones, and a few feet between us. Not a single interruption. No cellphones. No distractions. No bathroom breaks.
At a time when there is a desire for shorter, crisper content -- responding to abbreviated human attention spans -- one of the most popular podcasts in the country features conversations that last exceptionally long and go particularly deep.
Many friends cautioned me against accepting Joe's invitation. "There is little room for reasonable conversations anymore," one person told me. "He is a brawler and doesn't play fair," another warned. In fact, when I told Joe early in the podcast that I didn't agree with his apparent views on vaccines against Covid, ivermectin and many things in between, part of me thought the MMA, former Taekwondo champion might hurtle himself across the table and throttle my neck. But, instead he smiled, and off we went.
Here is a headline: Joe Rogan agreed to get vaccinated
OK, I am embellishing here, but Joe Rogan is the one guy in the country I wanted to exchange views with in a real dialogue -- one that could potentially be among the most important conversations of this entire pandemic. After listening to his podcasts for a while now, I wanted to know: Was Joe simply a sower of doubt, a creator of chaos? Or was there something more? Was he asking questions that begged to be asked, fueled by necessary suspicion and skepticism?

Into the lion's den
It wasn't what Joe Rogan thinks that most interested me, it was how he thinks. That is what I really wanted to understand.
Truth is, I have always been a naturally skeptical person myself. One of my personal heroes, the physicist Edwin Hubble, said a scientist has a "healthy skepticism, suspended judgment and disciplined imagination, not only about other people's ideas but also about their own."
It's a good way of thinking about the world -- full of honesty and humility. I live by that, and I think Joe may to some extent as well. He will be the first to point out that he is not a doctor or a scientist who has studied these topics. Instead, he seems to see himself less a rapscallion and more of a sort of guardian of the galaxy, pointing out the missteps made by large institutions such as the government and mainstream medicine, and then wondering aloud if they can still be trusted to make recommendations or even mandates for the rest of us. To many, he represents a queen bee in a hive mind, advancing free will and personal liberty above all else.
The free will of your fist ends where my nose begins
When I said this to Joe, the MMA fighter, he paused, sat back and listened for a while. I asked him: Is it not possible to advocate strongly for personal freedoms, but also recognize the unique threat a highly contagious disease represents? He seemed to agree, but then quickly countered with a common misconception about the overall utility of the vaccines.
If vaccinated people transmit just as much as the unvaccinated, why are they really necessary?
It was like Joe and I were now in the octagon, circling one another. He stared at me intently now, eyebrows raised. I admitted that the vaccinated could still carry the virus at similar loads as the unvaccinated, but swiftly added -- before he could claim victory -- that there was more to the story.
I shared data with Joe showing the vaccinated were eight times less likely to become infected in the first place, and that their viral loads came down more rapidly if they did get infected -- making them contagious for a shorter period and less likely to spread the virus.
Vaccines are not perfect, but he had to agree they are certainly a worthy tool to help control the spread of the virus. And, they are particularly effective at keeping people from getting severely ill or dying. They also may help prevent the development of long Covid, a chronic state of illness that some people develop after natural infection, even if their bout with the acute phase of infection was mild.
What he said next surprised me
So, it turns out that Joe Rogan nearly got vaccinated. That was a headline. It was a few months ago when he was in Las Vegas. He had an appointment scheduled but had logistical hurdles and couldn't make it. He offered up this story as proof he is not necessarily "anti-vaccine," even if he does consistently raise issues questioning their legitimacy.
It's this sort of back and forth that makes it hard to pin Joe Rogan down, both in martial arts and a podcast interview.
For example: Even as he sometimes railed against masks, "The Joe Rogan Experience" masks emblazoned with his logo are available for sale on his website. I even bought one ahead of time and gave it to him as a gift. He looked surprised. (Incidentally, they are made in China.)
Despite a downplaying of Covid risks often heard on Joe's podcast, his private studio prioritizes safety. A nurse was present to perform a rapid Covid test before we began. We were even checked for the presence of antibodies with a finger prick blood test.
Both of us carried antibodies -- his from natural immunity, mine from the vaccine. I was vaccinated in December of last year and Rogan contracted Covid at the end of August. Even though this antibody test could only detect the presence of antibodies and not their strength, Joe took great pride in his test, insisting the thickness of his lines must mean stronger immunity. I am fairly certain he was joking. And, I didn't have the heart to tell him that my antibody line was significantly thicker than his anyway.
The nuance of immunity
It bears repeating that no one should choose infection over vaccination. That is the concern many public health officials have had since the earliest days of the pandemic. If nothing else comes out of my conversation with Joe Rogan, I hope at least this point does. Far too many people have become severely ill and died, even after the effective vaccines became available. Just in the last three months, there have been more than 90,000 preventable Covid-19 deaths in the US among unvaccinated adults, according to a new analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation.
At the same time, an Israeli study garnered a lot of attention after it appeared to show that natural immunity offered significant protection -- even stronger than two doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine in people who had never been infected."
So the question Joe raises, as do many others: Why should those who have previously had Covid still get the vaccine?
It's a fair question, and one that I raised myself with Dr. Anthony Fauci back in early September. At the time, he told me there was no firm answer on this, and they were still looking into what the recommendations should be going forward and how durable natural immunity is in the long run."
Part of the issue is that we still don't have a clear idea of how many people have contracted Covid in the United States. The official number is around 45 million, but due to continued lack of sufficient testing, it remains uncertain. And many of the antibody tests that are currently available have high rates of both false negative and false positive results, oftentimes making them unreliable as proof of immunity.
Another issue with natural immunity is that it can vary substantially based on the age of the individual and just how sick they got in the first place. Milder illness in older people often resulted in fewer antibodies being produced.
Some studies have shown between 30 and 40 percent of people who have recovered from Covid did not have detectable neutralizing antibodies at all. That probably explains why a recent study showed that unvaccinated people who already had Covid were more than twice as likely to get reinfected as those who had also been vaccinated.
I told Joe that even in the study from Israel, the authors concluded with the recommendation that people who had recovered from Covid still get a vaccine. And when Joe pushed hard on the risk of myocarditis in kids who receive the vaccine, especially young boys, I countered back equally hard that the risk of myocarditis has been shown to be much higher for infected children under 16 years old compared to their uninfected peers. Those numbers dwarf the risk of myocarditis in kids who receive the vaccine (and, to be sure, most cases of myocarditis can be treated without hospitalization). For me, the risk-benefit analysis is clear: Vaccination is safer than infection.
I guess a small part of me thought I might change Joe Rogan's mind about vaccines. After this last exchange, I realized it was probably futile. His mind was made up, and there would always be plenty of misinformation out there neatly packaged to support his convictions. Truth is though, I am still glad I did it. My three-hour-long conversation wasn't just with Rogan. If just a few of his listeners were convinced, it will have been well worth it.

 (CNN)A group of unvaccinated Maine health care workers are asking the Supreme Court to block a state rule that mandates certain health care facilities require their employees to be fully vaccinated, arguing that the requirement violates their religious liberty rights. 
So far, the justices have declined invitations to strike down vaccine mandates at Indiana University and New York City schools, but the Maine dispute could be different.  
That's because the workers are making religious claims that could attract some of the justices. 
The case is reminiscent of religious liberty disputes that arose in the early days of the coronavirus pandemic when states passed strict rules seeking to combat the spread of the virus. The court's conservative majority ruled in favor of houses of worship in those disputes.  
"Even in times of a crisis -- perhaps especially in times of crisis-we have a duty to hold governments to the Constitution," Justice Neil Gorsuch wrote at one point. 
The Maine vaccine mandate is set to take effect on October 29. The workers argue that it violates the Constitution and Title VII, federal civil rights law that bars employment discrimination based on religion. While Maine offers a limited exemption for some medical situations, it does not consider requests for religious objections. 
 
"Maine has plainly singled out religious employees who decline vaccination for religious reasons for especially harsh treatment," Mathew Staver, a lawyer for Liberty Counsel, representing the workers, wrote in court papers. At the same time, Staver said the state has been "favoring and accommodating employees declining vaccination for secular, medical reasons." 
Staver said the workers object to the vaccines because of the way that they were either "developed, researched, tested, produced or otherwise developmentally associated with fetal cell lines that originated in elective abortions." 
It is an argument that has been made before. The Catholic Church and the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, the church's highest doctrinal authority, have wrestled with the moral permissibility of receiving Covid-19 vaccines because of their distant relation to fetal cell lines developed from abortions in the 1970s and 1980s.    
The AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson vaccines were developed using aborted cell lines, though the final product does not contain fetal cells. The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines were not manufactured from fetal cell lines and the final product does not contain fetal cells, although their testing used these cell lines.   
The Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith said in a note approved by Pope Francis that receiving the shot was morally permitted. "It is morally acceptable to receive Covid-19 vaccines that have used cell lines from aborted fetuses in their research and production process," the note said. 
But the health care workers, including one health care provider who operates his own private practice in the state, still object. The provider doesn't want to receive the vaccine and he wants to honor the beliefs of his employees who also object. When the mandate goes into force, he says he will face the revocation of his license and the shuttering of his practice. 
"Since Covid-19 first arrived in Maine," Staver told the justices, his clients "have risen every morning donned their personal protective equipment, and fearlessly marched into hospitals, doctor's offices, emergency rooms and examination rooms with one goal: to provide quality healthcare to those suffering from Covid." 
He noted that Maine had been allowing religious objections, but changed course at around the same time as the Delta variant intensified.   
In response, Maine Attorney General Aaron Frey urged the justices to let the mandate stand, saying that the pandemic has "gripped" the state with 100,937 total confirmed cases and 1,122 deaths as of October 2021. He said the mandate was necessary to "prevent the spread of Covid" in high-risk places and that it did not target religious practice.   
A medical exemption is necessary, he said, "because there are certain circumstances when vaccination may cause adverse health consequences, thereby actually harming that individual." 
Frey argued that Maine is different from other states because the size of its workforce is limited. Contrary to Staver, he said that the state did publish guidance explaining that the state rule does not prohibit employers from providing accommodations under Title VII. They can allow employees to work remotely, the state said, or they can be reassigned to a facility not covered by the mandate. 
Albany Law School Dean Alicia Ouellette said the religious aspect of the challenge will make this case more attractive to justices than other efforts to end vaccine mandates. 
"I think it is very likely that the Supreme Court will take on a case challenging a state vaccine mandate that does not allow for a religious exemption, especially if the state allows for medical exemptions," Ouellette said in an interview. 
She noted that some justices have indicated that public health measures violate the First Amendment if they treat any secular activity more favorably than religious activity. 
"Some people argue, and some lower court judges are holding that those cases require religious exemptions to vaccine mandates that include medical exemptions," she said.   
CNN's John Allen, Livia Borghese, Sanam Mahoozi and Rob Picheta contributed to this report.
 (CNN)The United States plans to ease restrictions on travel for fully vaccinated visitors from Canada and Mexico starting in early November, relaxing bans that have been in place for more than 18 months, according to senior administration officials. 
The new rules, which are similar to those announced for international air passengers, will be rolled out in a phased approach. The first phase, kicking off in early November, will allow fully vaccinated visitors traveling for nonessential reasons, like visiting friends or for tourism, to cross US land borders. The second phase, starting in early January 2022, will apply the vaccination requirement to all inbound foreign travelers, whether traveling for essential or nonessential reasons. 
"These new vaccination requirements deploy the best tool we have in our arsenal to keep people safe and prevent the spread of Covid-19 and will create a consistent, stringent protocol for all foreign nationals traveling into the United States whether by land or air," a senior administration official told reporters. 
The US has been limiting nonessential travel on the ground along its borders with Canada and Mexico since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic and extending those restrictions on a monthly basis. Air travel between the US and those countries has been possible. The restrictions don't apply to cross-border trade, US citizens and lawful permanent residents, as well as people traveling for medical purposes or to attend school, among others.
The latest set of restrictions is due to expire on October 21. Senior administration officials said the limits on cross-border travel will remain in effect until a soon-to-be-disclosed date in November. 
A Trump-era public health order that's allowed for the swift expulsion of more than 958,000 migrants will also stay in effect. Those restrictions, while also based on public health, are necessary because of concerns over migrants in congregate settings when undergoing processing, officials said. 
The travel restrictions had come under heavy scrutiny by lobbyists, lawmakers and border mayors who implored the Biden administration to adjust limits to meet the evolving landscape.
New York Gov. Kathy Hochul welcomed the news Tuesday night. "I applaud our federal partners for reopening our borders to Canada, something I have called for since the beginning of the closure," the Democratic governor said in a statement. "Canada is not only our trade partner, but more importantly, Canadians are our neighbors and our friends."
New York Rep. Brian Higgins, a Democrat who represents a Buffalo-area district, also heralded the decision, saying that "strong vaccination rates in Canada made the continued border shutdown absurd and unjustifiable."
"For months now we've heard from businesses that are suffering and families distraught over the separation imposed by the continued border shutdown. The sigh of relief coming from the Northern Border communities following this announcement is so loud it can practically be heard on either end of the Peace Bridge."
When asked about the timeline for reopening borders, the White House has repeatedly pointed to interagency working groups that were formed over the summer. Overseen by the White House Covid-19 response team and the National Security Council, the groups included representatives from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention along with officials from the Departments of State, Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, and Transportation. 
American officials were also partnered with representatives from the European Union, United Kingdom, Canada and Mexico.
"We have seen increased vaccine availability obviously in Canada, which now has very high vaccination rates, as well as in Mexico. And we wanted to have a consistent approach to both land and air entry into this country and so this is the next step to bring those into alignment," the senior administration official said. 
The US previously told the Canadians that the Biden administration wanted to keep rules on both land borders symmetrical, a source familiar with discussions told CNN, despite differing situations on both borders and inconsistencies with air travel rules.
The US-Mexico border has been facing an influx of migrants that has overwhelmed resources, prompting some concern among US Customs and Border Protection officials about easing travel restrictions on the US southern border while surging personnel to assist with an uptick in migrants. 
CBP will be charged with enforcing the newly announced vaccination requirement, including seeking attestations of vaccination status and spot checking travelers for verification of vaccination status via paper or digital means, according to another senior administration official. There will not be a testing requirement. 
This story has been updated with reaction.

 (CNN)Brooklyn Nets star Kyrie Irving will be allowed to practice at the team's facility in New York City, but still won't be able to play in Nets' home games at Barclays Center because of the city's vaccine mandate, a City Hall official told CNN on Friday.
 
According to the official, the HSS Training Center -- the Nets' practice facility in Brooklyn -- is considered a private workplace, so it's not subject to New York City's vaccination mandate.
 
Speaking during the league's media day last week, Irving refused to disclose his vaccination status, saying he "would like to keep all that private." Irving attended media day via Zoom due to NBA Covid-19 protocols. 
 
While the seven-time All-Star will be allowed to practice, he was listed on the team's injury report as ineligible to play in the Nets' home preseason game on Friday night. It's unclear if the team will allow Irving to play in away games.

 
Last month, the NBA warned that vaccine mandates set by New York City and San Francisco could prohibit players of the Brooklyn Nets, New York Knicks and Golden State Warriors from competing in home games if they are not vaccinated or exempted.
 
Players from visiting teams who compete at the city's arenas are not included in the local governments' vaccination mandates.
 
"I know that I'll be there every day no matter what and just be present for my teammates as one of the leaders on the team," Irving added. 
 
"I know the focus has to be at an all-time high, no distractions. This is the last thing I wanted to create, was more distractions and more hoopla and more drama around this. I'm doing my best to maintain this with good intentions and a good heart."
 
CNN has reached out to the Nets for comment. 
 
The Nets are scheduled to open the 2021-22 NBA regular season on October 19 in Milwaukee against the Bucks, and the team's first home game is slated for October 24 against the Charlotte Hornets.

CNN's Elizabeth Joseph contributed to this report.
 (CNN)Robert Durst, the notorious subject of the HBO docuseries "The Jinx" and now a convicted murderer, was indicted Monday by a Westchester County, New York, grand jury for a separate murder charge in connection with his late wife's death.
Durst was charged last month with one count of murder in the second degree in the alleged killing of his former wife, Kathleen McCormack Durst.
Monday's indictment states that "on or about" January 31, 1982, in Lewisboro in Westchester County, Durst "with intent to cause the death of another person, did cause the death of such person; to wit: Kathleen Durst."
Durst was found guilty in September of first-degree murder for shooting his best friend Susan Berman in 2000 at her Beverly Hills home, hours before she was set to talk to investigators about the mysterious disappearance of Durst's wife, Kathleen McCormack Durst. 
Dick DeGuerin, the former lead attorney for Durst, said in a statement to CNN that Durst is "on death's door." CNN reported Durst, who also has bladder cancer, tested positive for Covid-19 in October.
Durst was sentenced to life in prison without parole in October for Berman's murder.
Kathleen McCormack Durst was last seen in 1982 and her body has not been found. McCormack Durst was declared legally dead in 2017. 
"I don't think there's any evidence to go on," DeGuerin told CNN. "It doesn't mean he can't be indicted."
In a news release, Westchester District Attorney Miriam Rocah said McCormack Durst's family and friends had been left with "pain, anguish and questions that have contributed to their unfaltering pursuit of justice for the past 39 years." 
Rocah said her office "reinvigorated" its investigation into Durst when she took office 10 months ago. 
"For nearly four decades there has been a great deal of speculation about this case, much of it fueled by Robert Durst's own highly publicized statements," Rocah said. "An indictment is a crucial step in the process of holding wrongdoers accountable for their actions."
Bob Abrams, who represents Durst McCormack's family, told CNN, "The family will have a public statement on Wednesday."
Durst is currently in custody in California, where he stood trial for Berman's murder. After Durst tested positive for Covid-19, he was transferred to the California Health Care Facility in Stockton last week, according to online inmate records.

 (CNN)A jury has been selected in the civil trial that will decide whether organizers behind the August 2017 "Unite the Right" rally will be held responsible for the violence that took place in Charlottesville, Virginia.  
The plaintiffs, who include town residents and counterprotesters injured in two days of clashes, contend the organizers of the rally engaged in a conspiracy. The nine individuals are seeking "compensatory and statutory" damages for physical and emotional injuries they suffered.
The plaintiffs are represented by a large team of powerful lawyers under the umbrella of the nonprofit Integrity First for America.
The 12 jurors were selected after being grilled with questions over three days.
US District Court Judge Norman Moon asked probing questions to jurors that tried to expose their feelings about racism, the Black Lives Matter movement, antifa, White nationalism and whether they had already decided who was responsible for the violence. 
Attorneys for both sides sent questions to Moon to help weed out potential jurors. Moon dismissed many potential jurors who couldn't get out of work, ran their own businesses and couldn't be replaced, or had physical hardships,such as recovering from Covid-19.
And those dismissals were in addition to anyone Moon felt was too biased to sit on the jury, an issue that came up repeatedly during selection. 
"It took a little longer than expected, but that's all right," said Moon of the jury as he dismissed the court for the day. 
With the jury now in place, opening statements are slated to start Thursday morning at 9 a.m., according to Moon.
CNN's Linh Tran contributed to this report.
 (CNN)Florida's teacher shortage has worsened since the start of the school year, with vacancies for teachers surging to more than 5,000, according to updated data from the Florida Education Association.
There are also more than 4,000 openings for other school staff positions, according to FEA President Andrew Spar.
The organization released its initial findings in August, but since the figures were so high, it recounted vacancies again in October, only to discover an increase. FEA's Spar took to TikTok on Sunday to publicize the staffing situation, saying the state had about 5,100 teacher positions open.
"These numbers and trends are an alarm bell going off for our public schools, and state officials need to start listening," Spar said. "Educators have made clear why they're leaving our schools, and young people will readily share why they don't want to pursue an education career."
The FEA said the stress and uncertainty of the Covid-19 pandemic have fueled the shortages in the state, but it is also connected to low pay.
The data underscores the challenges facing the education system in Florida, where school boards have been at odds with Gov. Ron DeSantis over mask mandates and the federal government has challenged the state over such measures.
The US Education Department recently repaid a group of Florida school board members whose salaries had been withheld for implementing mask mandates in defiance of the governor's executive order that parents, not school officials, decide how to protect their children in the pandemic. 
And last month, the department's civil rights enforcement arm said it was opening an investigation into whether the Florida Education Department "may be preventing school districts in the state from considering or meeting the needs of students with disabilities" with the mask mandate ban.
'Right now, it's brutal,' teacher says
The number of teacher vacancies as of August 2021 was more than a 67% increase from August 2020, according to the FEA's full survey results. 
"We are now two months into the school year, and by this point those numbers typically drop significantly. However, this year, is different," Spar said in his TikTok video. 
The vacancies come as the pandemic adds stress and exacerbates pre-existing problems for Florida teachers, said Gretchen Robinson, a reading teacher at Orlando's University High School.
Many students fell behind last year during remote learning, "and we're double-timing it to try to catch them up," she told CNN's "New Day" on Tuesday. 
"And unfortunately, we're dealing with very large class sizes, so that makes it even more difficult," Robinson said. 
She also points to "insecurity about how the health of students, teachers and staff is going to be protected going forward." She noted that her district, Orange County Public Schools, is one of the districts enforcing a mask mandate in defiance of the governor's executive order.
And she said pay is a "huge issue." The average salary for teachers in Florida ranks 49th in the nation, according to the FEA, more than $10,000 less than the national average, which was $65,090 for the 2020-21 school year, according to the National Education Association.
"I would love to be making what my colleagues in states with an actual teaching budget, who are veteran teachers like me, are making," Robinson said. "That would be great, considering the insane hours I put in during this (pandemic) situation.
"Even at the best of times, teaching is challenging -- it's a challenge I love. But right now, it's brutal."
'Alarming' vacancies in support staff
The FEA also found "alarming" vacancies in support staff categories, including 75% of all districts advertising openings for bus drivers and hundreds of listings for custodians, office managers, and food service workers.
To illustrate the severity of the problem, Spar scrolled through several districts job listings during his video. There are 278 vacancies in Duval County in northeast Florida, and openings in South Florida's Broward County for 89 elementary, 41 high school, and 25 middle school teachers.
The next survey will be conducted in January after classes resume from winter break.
Correction: This story has been updated to remove outdated information regarding Florida's plan to use federal Covid-19 relief funds for schools. The state submitted its plan on October 6. Additionally, an earlier version of this story had the wrong first name for Florida Education Association President Andrew Spar.
CNN's Jason Hanna contributed to this report.
 (CNN)The contest to become New York City's next mayor effectively ended early this summer, when Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams won the Democratic primary.
But on Wednesday night, Adams shared a stage with the Republican nominee, Curtis Sliwa, a founder of the Guardian Angels and media personality, for their first debate. The event was less a showdown over who will win the election on November 2, when Adams is expected to romp to victory, than a chance for the moderators and Sliwa to cross-examine the future mayor.
Adams, as he's done on the trail, largely refused to engage directly with Sliwa, whom he has described as an unserious candidate. Sliwa took his shots, questioning Adams' credibility, jabbing him for being mean to Andrew Yang during the Democratic primary -- "a great candidate who you besmirched every opportunity you had" -- and railing against the city political establishment.
Still, when it came to some of the thornier issues he will face at the beginning of next year, Adams offered some new insight into how he will govern and faced questions that underscored the depth of the challenges facing the first American city to be devastated by the coronavirus pandemic.
Adams backs new de Blasio city worker vaccine mandate -- mostly
Adams and Sliwa are both vaccinated against Covid-19, but they disagreed on whether and to what extent the city should mandate that workers and, in the future, young students get the shot.
Adams pledged to "follow the science" when it came to vaccines for students 5 to 11 years of age and that the requirement for those schoolchildren would only come into effect following full approval from the US Food and Drug Administration. He also suggested that a "remote option" could be made available for students who choose not to get vaccinated.
The Democrat left less leeway for city workers, who will come under a full mandate, according to a new order from outgoing Mayor Bill de Blasio.
Adams said he agreed with the decision but tweaked de Blasio for not engaging more with union leaders before announcing the decision.
Sliwa opposes vaccine mandates for young students and city workers. 
Law and order takes center stage
Adams and Sliwa each focused their campaigns on public safety and policing. Adams framed concerns over crime as an existential problem for a city desperate to lure back tourists and former residents who fled during the depths of Covid-19's first wave.
So it was a reversal of sorts when Sliwa, during the debate, attacked Adams for being too soft on crime and inadequately supportive of the police department. Adams, a retired NYPD captain, laughed off the suggestion and reminded voters of his credentials and past work.
"New Yorkers are going to make a determination of a person that wore a bulletproof vest, who protected the children and families of this city and fought crime against a person who made up crimes so that he could be popular," Adams said, drawing a line between him and Sliwa, who has in the past fabricated stories of criminal behavior -- by his own admission -- to sensationalize the issue.
Adams directed his message, again, mostly to average city voters -- Democrats -- and talked up his testimony in the court case that ended with the department's use of "stop and frisk" under Mayor Michael Bloomberg being declared unconstitutional. Adams has said he would continue to use the tactic, but under stricter, lawful guidelines.
Adams also addressed the ongoing crisis at the Rikers Island jail complex. City leaders have plans to close it, but the details remain contentious. Adams said officials still "have to look at the placing of the new jails," but, in the meantime, called for an end to "the bottleneck."
"Those who are going to court, let's get them to court so to determine if they're innocent or if they can serve time in the state facilities where they're supposed to," he said.
Adams again faces a question of trust
During the primary, Adams was dogged by questions over how much time he actually spent in his Brooklyn home.
Questions about his residency became loud enough that, in one of the campaign's most surreal episodes, Adams led reporters on a daytime tour of his apartment in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood.
"This is my block, my neighbors," Adams said at the time. "I'm proud to be a resident of Bed-Stuy."
That followed a Politico report that asked whether Adams was more likely to be found overnighting in his co-op in Fort Lee, New Jersey, over the George Washington Bridge from the city, than the borough he runs.
On Wednesday night, Adams brushed off the issue -- blaming an accountant for flubbing paperwork that added to the controversy -- and refused to respond directly when asked how many nights he's spent in his Brooklyn apartment over the last six months.
"I stay at my brownstone. I live in Brooklyn," he said. "That's my primary residence, I don't jot down the number of days I'm there."
Sliwa, getting in the last line, poked at Adams for taking a recent trip to Europe, joking that the Democrat "spent more time on vacation in Monaco" than the city.
Climate change concerns get (more) real after Ida
The death and destruction that racked New York when floods caused by Hurricane Ida killed dozens in the East, a number of them in basement apartments, in early September has touched off a larger debate over climate change and the city's preparedness.
De Blasio and other top officials, including in New Jersey, have also been criticized for not acting swiftly enough when Ida struck.
"We were caught off-guard, that can never happen again," Adams said, promising to install a more efficient and organized system that can be easily prodded into action when a serious storm is bearing down on the city. "We learned from terrorism, you don't wait 'til the day when a plane attacks," he added.
And unlike Sliwa, who mostly demanded sea walls be built in Staten Island and other vulnerable locations, Adams sought to frame the concern as part of a bigger effort to combat climate change and its effects.
"This was rain, it had nothing to do with sea walls," said Adams, who has promised to expedite existing green programs and published a detailed "resiliency plan."
"Climate change is here," the document begins, calling it an "urgent public safety issue" before laying out what it described as the "interventions we need right now to warn, educate and insulate New Yorkers from damage and death."
Making the pitch for New York City
Asked to make the case for New York City as a place to live and work, Adams leaned on a longtime campaign promise: public safety.
"We're going to have a safe city," he said, before offering a sharp elevator pitch.
"You will be bored in Florida," Adams deadpanned. "You will never be bored in New York."
Sliwa was less amused and, after previously saying he would spend his first night as mayor on Rikers Island to help the corrections officers there, ripped Adams over a promise that he would go to Florida immediately to lure businesses back to the city.
"January 2, Eric Adams is going to Florida like he just won the Super Bowl?" Sliwa said. "How about staying here in New York City and helping to improve and not to move. Keep the people that are already here."
Offered a chance to reply to Sliwa's salvo, Adams, in keeping with another theme of the night, demurred.
"I'm speaking to New Yorkers," he said, "not buffoonery."

 (CNN)Three companies that allegedly helped initiate tens of millions of robocalls in the US -- including to people on Do Not Call registries -- are being sued by the Indiana attorney general.
"Honestly, Hoosiers are sick and tired of these harassing and illegal unwanted robocalls. Everyone is," Attorney General Todd Rokita said in an interview with CNN. 
The suit, filed Thursday in the US District Court Southern District of Indiana Evansville Division, says that of the millions of robocalls made across the US, more than 4.8 million were to Indiana area codes. 
The suit lists Startel Communications LLC of Evansville, Indiana, a now-defunct company; VoIP Essential, located in California; and Piratel LLC, also located in California, as defendants.
Rokita said in a video statement that Startel allegedly acted as a gateway into the US for robocallers operating out of India, Singapore and the Philippines. 
The lawsuit also lists Wanda Hall and Abhijit Chowdhury as defendants, alleging they operated a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) business that helped the robocallers.  


The suit alleges the "robocallers made millions of illegal calls to Indiana residents, many of whom were on Indiana's Do Not Call List and/or the Federal Do Not Call List."
The calls violated the federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act and various Indiana state laws, the lawsuit says. The defendants also allegedly made calls to phone numbers that were registered on lists to prohibit such calls, the suit said.
In addition, it said, "many of the alleged calls were for scams, including but not limited to, a computer support scam, an Amazon subscription scam, a Social Security Administration imposter scam, and several Covid-19 related scams."
Chowdhury allegedly remotely managed Startel from India, with the help of Hall, the suit said.  
Hall said in a phone call with CNN, "I don't know what any of this means. I didn't do any of this, and I have not seen the lawsuit. I don't have anything else to say."
Chowdhury, who the lawsuit says travels between India and Indiana, could not be reached.
The lawsuit alleges Piratel and VoIP Essential each provided Startel with the ability to make hundreds of calls per second and increased the number of ports that allowed Startel to increase call volume. 
The two providers either "knew or consciously avoided knowing" that the robocalls were in violation of US and Indiana law, the lawsuit alleges.
CNN reached out to Piratel LLC and VoIP Essential. Representatives did not wish to comment at this time. 
Rokita said that he was taking advantage of the TRACED (Telephone Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement and Deterrence) Act, passed in 2019, to help in his mission to put a stop to offenders of the robocall laws.
The lawsuit states that it intends, on behalf of residents of the State of Indiana, to obtain "actual damages or damages of five hundred dollars ($500) for each violation, and up to treble that amount for each violation committed willfully and knowingly."
CNN's Steve Almasy contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)The Biden administration is preparing to revive in mid-November a Trump-era border policy that forces migrants to stay in Mexico until their US immigration court date, according to administration officials, putting it on track to implement another controversial policy at the US southern border.
The timeline, administration officials cautioned, is contingent on Mexico and whether it agrees to accept those enrolled in the program. 
The policy, informally known as "remain in Mexico," was suspended at the beginning of President Joe Biden's term and formally terminated months later. But in August, a federal judge in Texas said that the Biden administration had violated the Administrative Procedure Act -- which requires that agencies take certain procedural steps when implementing policy -- in how it went about unwinding the program and ordered its revival.
The Supreme Court later declined the Biden administration's request that it put on hold the lower court order, issuing a major blow to the administration as it sought to distance itself from Trump-era immigration policies.
Under President Donald Trump, migrants from Central America and other parts of the world who were seeking asylum at the US-Mexico border were forced to stay in Mexico until their immigration court hearings in the US, often in dangerous cities. It marked an unprecedented departure from previous protocols, which had allowed for the entry of migrants as they went through their immigration hearings in the United States.
An estimated 68,000 migrants were returned to Mexico under the policy, according to the Department of Homeland Security. For those subject to the policy, that meant waiting months, if not years, in squalid conditions and under the threat of extortion, sexual assault and kidnapping.
While Biden officials have said they disagree with the policy, formally known as the Migrant Protection Protocols, the administration has been in ongoing discussions with Mexico about reimplementing it.
Some of the points still under discussion between the US and Mexico include cases being heard in a timely manner, access to counsel, and establishing criteria for those who aren't subject to the policy. The government of Mexico, administration officials said, also expressed concerns about the times and locations of returns.
"Significantly, Mexico is a sovereign nation that must make an independent decision to accept the return of individuals without status in Mexico as part of any reimplementation of MPP. Discussions with the Government of Mexico concerning when and how MPP will be reimplemented are ongoing," DHS said in a statement.
DHS previously said it's updating policies and procedures to account for Covid-19 and preparing contracts to rebuild the soft-sided immigration hearing facilities that came under intense scrutiny during the Trump administration. Those courts will go up in two Texas border cities: Laredo and Brownsville, according to administration officials. 
If and when the policy is put in place, it would be the second Trump-era policy to remain in effect on the US-Mexico border. The Biden administration has already faced harsh criticism for keeping in place a public health order implemented at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic that allows for the swift expulsion of migrants, largely barring them from claiming asylum.
Administration officials said that if both policies are implemented simultaneously, the public health order will take precedence. 

 (CNN)Indianapolis Police Officer Jeff Stagg wasn't expecting any fanfare when he would stop to pick up trash and clear away the weeds around a roadside memorial for Shelby Smith -- he just didn't want the young woman, who was killed 22 years ago by a drunk driver, to be forgotten.
On Monday, Stagg met Smith's mother, who got in touch with him after video of him cleaning up the area drew widespread attention earlier this year.
"It was overwhelming and I was just so grateful because I had no idea that, you know, anyone had had been doing that," Sherry Smith told CNN. "I just felt like this has to be a special person."
Stagg has been with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department for 34 years and the intersection where Shelby was struck by the drunk driver is right in the middle of his beat, so he's driven past it several times a day for most of his career.
He told CNN that he wasn't working on the day of the crash, but drove by a few days later and stopped to talk to two of Shelby's friends who were putting up the original memorial.
Not forgotten
Stagg said he'd kept an eye on the memorial ever since, and noticed a couple of years ago that it was starting to deteriorate.
"I just decided I'm not gonna let Shelby's death in this intersection be forgotten," Stagg said. "I just started picking up trash, keeping the grass and weeds from encroaching around the cross and the little angel figurines and rocks they had put there at the base and just tried to keep it as presentable as I could."
He also bought new plastic flowers to replace the ones that had faded and weathered over the years. Workers at the nearby gas station do what they can to keep the area clean, but Stagg said a lot of litter blows up because it's such a high-traffic area.
Smith said that she and her family had maintained the memorial for years, but she moved away about 12 years ago and now lives in Texas. The Covid-19 pandemic has made it harder for loved ones to visit the site.
Stagg said he stops at the memorial about every other day and in August, he told Shelby's story to a man who shot video of him picking up trash and stopped to thank him.
The passerby posted the video on TikTok, and Stagg's efforts made the local news.
"I knew I had to meet him because he had to be a very special person, Smith said. "And he is."
She called Stagg in August to thank him and they made plans to meet at the memorial in October because she was going to be in town.
"She called me about it and I said 'Mrs. Smith, you're not going to believe this, but I'm parked next to Shelby's memorial as we speak,'" Stagg said. "And her voice started to crack and then my voice started to crack and it was an emotional conversation."
Ahead of the meeting, Stagg worked with another police officer, who's good at woodworking, to build a new cross for the memorial. The white cross has Shelby Smith's name on it in bright pink letters.
They packed up the original cross to give to Smith.
"Outside of the white paint fading away and peeling off, the cross itself held together through some pretty nasty Indiana weather," Stagg said.
Emotional meeting
Smith gave Stagg a big hug when they met in the gas station parking lot near the memorial. She brought flowers and a picture of Shelby to place at the site.
"It's so beautiful," she said in video shot by CNN affiliate WISH.
Smith said she thanked Stagg for his service as a police officer and for his thoughtfulness and generosity.
The officer who arrested the drunk driver was also at the memorial for Smith's visit. "It was nice to see him. I recognized him right away," Smith said. "It's been 22 years, but I recognized him right away."
Stagg said his daughter was the same age as Shelby and that it was devastating to think of all the things her mom wasn't able to experience because of the actions of a drunk driver.
Smith said Shelby was 18-years-old and had just graduated high school when she died. She was planning to attend the University of Southern Indiana and wanted to go into education."She was just so passionate about school and friends and family," Smith said.
She had gotten off work at one of her two jobs and was driving to spend the night at a friend's house when her car was hit by the drunk driver, Smith said.
Smith said she became very active with Mothers Against Drunk Driving after the crash and campaigned for tougher DUI laws in Indiana.
Stagg said its been an honor to care for the memorial and to be able to meet Smith after all these years and that it's the sort of thing police officers do all the time.
"I believe this strongly that this is part of the job," Stagg said. "When we can try to do something to make things a little bit better as a result of a tragedy, that's what we do."

Bill Carter, a media analyst for CNN, covered the television industry for The New York Times for 25 years, and has written four books on TV, including The Late Shift and The War for Late Night. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. 
I don't know what people expected from "The Sopranos" prequel movie, "The Many Saints of Newark," but many of the reactions have been along the lines of, "It's good; but not as good as the TV show." (That happens to be mine, as well.)
Meanwhile, some of the professional critiques (mostly, it should be noted, by movie critics) have been downright harsh.
Among the toughest was Manohla Dargis in The New York Times who called the film "a busy, unnecessary, disappointingly ordinary origin story." 
There are a couple of reasons these critiques aren't surprising. For one thing, the expectations were off-the-charts huge for a new "Sopranos" story, so it would be difficult not to disappoint. For another, smaller-budget films are very difficult to pull off. Increasingly, they are not much in demand  even ones with lots of bang like a mafia story  because most of the cash, and commitment to theatrical runs, goes to those movies with car crashes, explosions and guys in capes and tights. That's not new because of Covid. The trend has been gaining momentum for a long time, and it's one reason why some great talents in filmic storytelling don't work as much in the cinema any more and have found a happy home instead in good old, no-italics-needed, TV. 
David Chase, the brilliant creator of "The Sopranos," is perhaps the greatest example of this. It is difficult to imagine a film version of "The Sopranos" having anything close to the sweeping and enduring influence the TV show has had. Starting in 1999, the series created a new vocabulary for dramatic television in a new century.
In fact, it is now impossible to rank the greatest shows ever on television without placing "The Sopranos" at or near the top. And not only because it was executed with such consistent brilliance, week to week (back before shows delivered their whole seasons at once). The other reason is that "The Sopranos" was the lightning strike in the creation of what became the second golden age  and by far the superlative golden age  in the history of television. It opened viewers up to rich, deep (and dark) storytelling, where the medium's previous reflexive reaction to any sort of challenging material  the question, "But are the characters likable?"was rendered utterly meaningless.
Numerous shows in the 21st century owe outsized credit to "The Sopranos" for its bold, unconventional storytelling, and especially that embrace of an amoral protagonist who dominated the series. Those qualities characterize many of the shows that came after "The Sopranos" and now compete with the show on lists of top TV dramas of all time: "Mad Men," "The Wire," "The Americans," "Deadwood" and especially, "Breaking Bad."
I have interviewed Chase on several occasions, and I have great admiration for the spectacular artistry he brought to his TV show. But he was always a bit discomfited by the notion that his great achievement had come on television, which, in my conversations with him, he clearly regarded as a lesser artistic enterprise than the cinema.
He still seems to. Chase, who attended film school at Stanford, grew up when movie theaters were enjoying their last gasp of being gathering spaces of grandeur, with giant red curtains and balconies and even opera boxes  palaces of blissful escape where people spent whole Saturday afternoons and nights gathered together to get lost in the magic of Hollywood.
It's easy to identify with that sort of nostalgia for the old-time movie-going experience; but it's lost. People are flocking to fewer and fewer movies in theaters these days.
That surely had something to do with WarnerMedia's decision to release the movie both in theaters and on HBO Max on the same day. (WarnerMedia is the parent company of HBO and CNN.) Chase, of course, chafed, publicly and bitterly, saying in one interview he was "extremely angry" at the decision. 
He made clear from the start that he wanted this work to be regarded as a true movie  seen in theaters on a big screen for a legitimate run before it segued into an offering on HBO Max. He wanted his film to be treated differently because, unlike other films relegated by the pandemic to release on a TV streaming service, his had started out as a television series and needed to overcome the image of being a mere television show.
"Other movies didn't start out as a television show. They don't have to shed that television image before you get people to the theater," he said in the interview.
That's probably Chase's biggest misread of the status of his own creation. "The Sopranos" was a mere television show like "Macbeth" is a mere play  both violent dramas with morally compromised, charismatic heroes (and equally charismatic wives) that had an enduring impact.
If no TV show since has topped it, no movie version was ever going to either.

Tess Taylor is the author of the poetry collections "Work & Days," "The Forage House" and most recently, "Rift Zone" and "Last West: Roadsongs for Dorothea Lange." Views expressed in this commentary are solely hers. Read more opinion articles on CNN.
 (CNN)An odd thing happened in our garden this year -- early this spring, we got some squash volunteers that I didn't recognize but let grow. On the thin strip of garden we keep planted out between the sidewalk and the street, they took root, and emerged several months later as an impromptu pumpkin patch. 
Their fattening, yellowing progress was fun to discuss with our neighbors, until early last week big rains came, and the kids and I went out to pick our three "wild" sidewalk pumpkins. When we did, we discovered that pumpkins directly off the vine are different than pre-picked pumpkins in commercial patches. They're a lot more entangled with the earth that made them. Big yellow orbs still cling to a prickly maze of vines that has mostly died. The pumpkins lie surrounded by muck and twisted spindles. They are the left-behind skulls of their once verdant vines. 
All of this is to say that these pumpkins look stranger, more ghoulish, and less sanitized than any you might find, neatly cleaned, on a haybale, at a grocery store. One of our pumpkins had wound its drying vine-tendrils around itself, and they perched on its head like a strange witchy hat. Hauling it inside, I left the vine on. 
As I did this, I found myself thinking then about how Halloween feels different this year; how this season of life and death and their borderlands feels charged, and changed again. 
We too have been entangled with death. Even now, on the day I write this, as cases are falling, over a thousand people still will die of Covid-19 across the US; the worldwide tally of loss hovers as it expands. We have indeed been visited by a grim reaper. 
And while I am fond of a good scare, Halloween this year feels different than the macabre, plasticked-up horror film version of the holiday that can run on repeat this time of year (cue spooky laugh here). It feels more like Samhain, the Celtic festival where the grave mounds open, where the light shifts and time thins, and where people might leave a bit of food out for their ghosts and honor their ancestors. 
After all, these have been harrowing times, times of real graveyards, real death on a scale most of us haven't really ever been asked to live through before. Plastic skulls and bones and witches are up on my house and around my neighborhood and probably yours, but we each also live in shadow -- of friends and family gone, and the wider, ricocheting losses of the pandemic -- collapsed institutions, frayed health care systems, broken supply chains, shrunken public life. 
So many bright lives are no longer with us. Death has been proximate. A friend of mine, who lives near a hospital, keeps remembering the months he watched the refrigerator truck idling in front of it, waiting to forklift bodies into storage once the hospital morgue filled up. Many of us have such a story.  
Last year, in the dark of the first pandemic fall, I couldn't think about Halloween in these terms. I felt lucky to think at all. I tried to create a small feeling of normalcy for our kids, though it was, like a lot of things last year, just strange. We had a small family dance party in the backyard, and a "candy scavenger hunt" up the street with a few neighbors. This year, thanks to vaccines (and anticipating vaccines for kids), Halloween as fun and trick or treat are back, though at some reserve.  
Don't get me wrong, this brings us joy: My daughter is going as a dalmatian. My son is a half-transformed werewolf. I'll be a crow. My husband, bless his heart, is going to wear a suit and a pig nose and go as a (wait for it) capitalist pig. ("Dad, why are all your costumes actually puns?" my son asked him).  All this is to the good. I am happy to celebrate Halloween on these terms.
But I can't help thinking, as this hallowing and hallowed eve approaches, about the way that this is also a time I want to be aware of the people we've lost, of the dark season that is still blowing over us, of our connection to a moment in time that has changed our lives on earth -- that connects us with people plagues of the past, which marks the lives of our children and will probably mark the lives of their children, as well. 
I want to take a moment to acknowledge the thin space, to light a candle for a beloved aunt that passed, for my grandmother, who we couldn't gather to bury for nearly two years. I find myself thinking not just of Halloween, but of the day that comes after, the day of All Souls, or the Dia de los Muertos, the day of the dead. 
When I pulled up that pumpkin from the garden, I thought about how it had grown all year, how it was the year's work, the year's gourd, that we carve it up as a face partly to scare ourselves, and partly to remember how brief our own lives are.  Perhaps next Halloween or the Halloween after will feel more carefree, more silly. But there's also a chance that this pandemic was partly a warning, a stern reminder of being a fragile species on a fragile earth. That the candle we place inside the carved skull burns and then goes out. 

 (CNN)Adapting a relatively obscure comic into a sprawling epic, "Eternals" might be Marvel's boldest bet since "Guardians of the Galaxy," and that worked out. Whether this millennia-spanning tale of immortals hiding in plain sight on Earth can repeat history will serve as a referendum on the studio's muscle, especially because the movie's structural flaws offset its stunning visuals and strong performances.
Evaluating "Eternals" requires a few disclaimers, since it feels decidedly different from most Marvel fare. The story represents such a significant potential expansion of its "cinematic universe" that it might only be fairly judged in the rear-view mirror, once there's time to see what fruit these seeds have borne.
For that reason and others, the film is certainly interesting, and it comes with the pedigree of director/co-writer Chlo Zhao, following (with Covid-related delays figured into the lapse) the Oscar-winning "Nomadland."
Yet whatever Zhao's indie-film sensibilities, "Eternals" must both meet the action demands associated with the genre, which it ably does, while laying out a whole lot of background as it introduces these characters and what they signify. That latter task proves more awkward and ungainly, especially during the lengthy first half that explains the premise and reassembles the team, the most inclusive Marvel has presented.
"Eternals" simply takes too long getting to the good stuff, and its more cerebral and adult elements -- including a grand romance -- could harbor less appeal among kids, a not-inconsequential demo, than most recent Marvel titles.
Based on a lesser work from Marvel artist supreme Jack Kirby (who returned to the fold after creating his signature epic "New Gods" at DC), "Eternals" focuses on beings dispatched to Earth thousands of years ago to destroy horrid creatures called Deviants that threaten its inhabitants.
With extraordinary powers ranging from flight and super speed to altering matter and controlling minds, they were understandably confused with gods by ancient civilizations. Hence, names like Ikaris (Richard Madden), Sersi (Gemma Chan), Thena (Angelina Jolie), and Makkari ("The Walking Dead's" Lauren Ridloff) found their way into various mythologies, albeit with the spelling mangled.
It was always a rather cheeky conceit, and the film begins in the distant past before leaping to the present, with plenty of flashbacks to places like Mesopotamia and Babylon thrown in.
After relative calm for thousands of years the Deviants have reemerged, prompting the Eternals -- scattered across the globe -- to spring back into action, although that first requires rounding them up, and having some fun with how they've occupied their ageless and endless time.
At its core stand lovers Ikaris and Sersi, with Chan, the "Crazy Rich Asians" co-star, really serving as the heart of the film. Sersi has moved on to a human boyfriend played by Kit Harington, adding to a "Game of Thrones" alumni squad that includes Madden and composer Ramin Djawadi.
As constructed, the film spits out tons of exposition during its first third, sags during the middle, and rallies impressively during the final leg, which is filled with surprises and genuine emotion. Plus, stick around for the customary credit sequences.
All that comes a little late, though, to completely validate the movie. "Eternals" ultimately contemplates humanity, and the way these extraterrestrials see its beauty and possibilities as well as its ugliness, much like Vision's dialogue with Ultron in the first "Avengers" sequel, or the Silver Surfer in the comics. Instructed not to interfere in human affairs, their time on Earth has left its mark on them, just as they have found their way into humankind's mythology.
It's possible to enjoy individual moments -- from Chan and Madden's interactions to Kumail Nanjiani's character and his amusing pastimes -- and still come away thinking "Eternals" overreaches as it tries to spin this lightly regarded comic into gold.
Granted, the beauty of Marvel's interlocking universe is that by playing the long game the pieces build upon each other, so that appraisal might change as the next phase comes fully into shape. "Eternals" certainly doesn't lack for ambition, but for now, Marvel -- emboldened by its success -- has reached for the stars without quite getting there.
Will it eventually? Hope springs eternal.
"Marvel's Eternals" premieres Nov. 5 in US theaters. It's rated PG-13.


 (CNN)Six months after Art Acevedo resigned as Houston's police chief to take the top job at the Miami Police Department, his future with the agency is on thin ice after city commissioners called for his ouster during two contentious meetings.    
The commission held hourslong meetings on September 27 and October 1 to discuss decisions and behavior by Acevedo that they say are questionable, just a few days after the chief wrote a bombshell memo to Miami Mayor Francis Suarez and City Manager Arthur Noriega on September 24. 
In the memo, Acevedo accused city Commissioners Joe Carollo, Alex Diaz de la Portilla and Manolo Reyes of interfering with reform efforts and a confidential internal investigation.  
Commissioners Carollo, de la Portilla and Reyes could not be reached for comment when contacted by CNN. Mayor Suarez and City Manager Noriega also could not be reached for comment. 

The second meeting concluded with the commissioners voting unanimously to form a panel that will investigate Acevedo's hiring and the allegations against the commissioners laid out in his memo.
Acevedo, the first Latino to lead the police department in Houston, was dubbed by Miami's mayor as the "Tom Brady or the Michael Jordan of police chiefs," when he was hired.   

He has propelled himself to the national stage as a police leader who has been highly vocal in discussions about police reform and public safety, calling for national standards on the use of force by police and marching with protesters after George Floyd was killed by officers in Minneapolis.   
In his memo last month, Acevedo wrote: "If I or MPD give in to the improper actions described herein, as a Cuban immigrant, I and my family might as well have remained in communist Cuba, because Miami and MPD would be no better than the repressive regime and the police state we left behind."
During the meetings earlier this month, commissioners dissected Acevedo's background, focusing on his time in Houston, and criticized the way Acevedo was hired by saying it didn't follow typical protocol.
An NBC 6 investigation found that Acevedo did not officially apply for the role of chief; however, the mayor recommended Acevedo for the position while he was in Houston and the city manager hired him. He was selected over more than 50 applicants and eight finalists, including five internal candidates who went through a selection process.
According to NBC 6, Suarez previously defended the chief's hiring, saying, "it was a wonderful recruiting job by our manager to get essentially what is America's police chief here to Miami."
Acevedo faces backlash for demoting 2 officers, firing another
Since, several controversial moves by Acevedo have strained his relationship with the city over the past six months, said Alexis Piquero, the chair of the department of sociology and criminology at the University of Miami.

Acevedo faced backlash from his own police force when he fired two high-ranking officers and demoted a high-ranking Black Miami female police officer earlier this year and then appeared to support a Covid-19 vaccination mandate for officers. But the tipping point, according to Piquero, was when Acevedo told officers during roll call in August that the "Cuban Mafia runs the Miami Police Department." 
Acevedo later apologized, saying his comment was intended to "highlight the importance of diversity within our own ranks and to lighten our discussion," but added that he has since learned it was "highly offensive to the exile Cuban community, of which I am a proud member."  
When contacted by CNN for comment on the meetings and allegations, Acevedo said he has been "ordered by the city not to discuss these matters."  
City manager requests a plan for police department
City Manager Noriega asked Acevedo to submit a plan to change issues within the police department, and Acevedo laid out a 90-day action plan October 4 to improve the department in several areas, including boosting officer morale, mending his relationship with elected officials and a policing and management plan.    
"While there have been bumps in the road, I have hit the reset button and look forward to working diligently to accomplish my given mission of building on the successes of my predecessors," Acevedo wrote in the plan.  
Under Miami's city charter, the commission is a legislative body that does not have the power to give direction to the police department and cannot hire or fire a police chief. But the police chief reports directly to the city manager, who is hired by the commission and has the ability to terminate the police chief's contract.  
"Enough pressure can be applied on the city manager to do something with the police chief, whether that means to discipline them or sanction them, or otherwise have the two part ways," said Richard Rivera, a former policing policy analyst with the city who was a member of a police oversight panel.
The commissioners can also exercise "a lot of control and authority" because they can amend the city budget at any time, potentially upending the chief's plans for a particular unit or hiring a number of officers, Rivera said.   
"It behooves a police executive to work in conjunction with the commissioners," he added.  
While Acevedo's future in the department is uncertain, he faces one of three options in the coming weeks: Acevedo can commit to repairing his relationship with the commissioners, he can decide the relationship is untenable and choose to resign, or the city can decide to fire him, according to City Commissioner Ken Russell, who said he supported Acevedo's hiring but now is on the "side of process" to get the city's leadership back on stable ground. 
"My hope is that the chief and the city manager work this out but particularly quickly because instability within a police department is not good for a city of our size," Russell told CNN.  
What might happen next
As of now, the five commissioners have not passed any resolution of condemnation or judgment on the chief, Russell said. Three commissioners have been accused of wrongdoing, and those commissioners in turn have accused the chief of "inappropriate actions," he added.   
"The meetings shouldn't have happened in the first place," Russell said. "An open-ended discussion on what should be a carefully investigated accusation can only put the city at exposure."   
"What happens when you don't have leadership that has the support of management and the elected body is that it undermines their ability to manage a police force," Russell said. "When you've got a chief whose primary objective is reform, transparency and accountability, you need them to have the backing of those they work with. So, it's very important that we're a cohesive body."  
The most plausible scenario, Piquero said, is that the discussions continue to play out over the next few weeks, and Acevedo stays in office. It's unlikely that Acevedo will resign, he said, as his memo highlights his "sworn duty...to uphold the rule of law" and work for the "wellbeing of the men and women of the MPD" as well as the city. It's also unlikely that he will be fired due to his short tenure as chief, which typically lasts three to six years, and because he was asked to write a plan.  
"Noriega asked him to write a plan. You don't ask that and fire him," Piquero said, adding that "it would look bad for everybody,"  

A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.
London (CNN Business)The biggest US banks move trillions of dollars around the world every day. That gives them a unique lens on how the economy is functioning, both in the United States and globally. And despite concerns about inflation, workers quitting, supply chain issues and slowing growth, bank executives just delivered a clear message to investors: We're in pretty good shape right now.
"While there's been some discussion around the slowdown, I would just note that US economy is now as large as it was ... pre-pandemic," Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan told analysts Thursday.
Wall Street is cheering the latest earnings from America's top lenders, which have released billions of dollars they'd set aside earlier in the coronavirus crisis to cover potential bad loans. The Dow finished Thursday up 1.6%, while the S&P 500 rallied 1.7%. Bank of America's stock jumped 4.5%, while the KBW Bank Index, which tracks the sector, gained 1.3%.

So what exactly are banks seeing that makes them feel confident about the future?
Spending: Citi reported that credit card spending is up 20% compared to one year ago and is now "well above 2019 levels." Wells Fargo also found that weekly debit card spending was up every week last quarter compared to 2019 as customers shelled out on entertainment and restaurants again.
"We continue to see that our customers have significant liquidity and consumers are continuing to spend," Wells Fargo CEO Charles Scharf said.
There may be some changes in spending patterns as Covid-era government support dissipates, executives said. But they think the strength will persist.
Supply chains: Backlogged supply chains are worrying enough that the Biden administration has announced a "90-day sprint" to fix the problem. But banks don't see it as a game changer.
"I doubt we'll be talking about supply chain stuff in a year. I just think that we're focusing on it too much," JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon said. "It's simply dampening a fairly good economy. It's not reversing a fairly good economy."
Deals: Banks aren't just feeling good because spending is ramping up on Main Street. They're also cashing in on Wall Street, which has seen a huge boom in dealmaking.
JPMorgan reported that its investment banking revenue shot up 45% as it raked in fees from advising companies on mergers and orchestrating stock sales. Morgan Stanley saw its investment banking revenue leap 67% compared to a year ago. Citi had its best quarter for mergers and acquisitions in a decade.
Does that mean everything is rosy? Certainly not. Citi CEO Jane Fraser said the company is watching three things "closely." There's inflation, including the impact of worker shortages and the energy crunch, as well as the slowdown in China and what happens with US debt ceiling negotiations.
But the big picture is that for now, lenders are making tons of money  and they expect the trend to continue.
Virgin Galactic's stock is cratering
Virgin Galactic's stock is nosediving after the company said it was delaying the dream of space tourism for its uber-wealthy customers.
The latest: The company, founded by billionaire Richard Branson, has announced that it's pushing back the start of full commercial service to the fourth quarter of next year. It had been targeting late third quarter.
Shares plunged 18% in premarket trading Friday.
Virgin Galactic said its immediate priority is an "enhancement program" designed to improve the performance of its rocket-powered plane VSS Unity and the mother ship from which it launches.

But that means customers that have paid six figures for trips will need to wait a bit longer. Virgin Galactic has sold about 600 tickets for future flights.
The company's shares were already under pressure. After shooting up above $60 in February, they finished Thursday at $24.06.
On the radar: Space tourism increasingly has been dividing the public. On Thursday, Prince William criticized billionaires focused on rockets in an interview with the BBC, saying they should invest more time and money in saving Earth.
"Star Trek" actor William Shatner, who blasted into space earlier this week on one of Amazon founder Jeff Bezos' rockets, shot back at the British royal, who he said has "got the wrong idea."
"The idea here is not to go, 'Yeah, look at me. I'm in space,'" Shatner told Entertainment Tonight. Instead, the trips represent a "baby step" toward relocating polluting industries to space, he said.
New paper suggests S&P 500 membership could be 'for sale'
Companies are extremely eager to join the S&P 500, and for good reason.
Becoming a member of the most prominent index of US stocks helps firms attract significant investment from market players who otherwise may not have purchased shares. It's also a prestigious distinction  the ultimate members club for companies to prove they've "made it."
But are spots in the index for sale? That's the explosive question asked in a working paper by academics at the Australian National University and Columbia University recently published by the National Bureau of Economic Research.
The paper, whose findings have not been peer-reviewed, claims that companies tend to purchase more S&P ratings of their creditworthiness when there are openings in the flagship index. It also found that purchases "appear to improve their chance of entering the index."
In a statement, S&P Global criticized the paper as "flawed."
"S&P Dow Jones Indices and S&P Global Ratings are separate businesses with policies and procedures to ensure they are operated independently of one another," the company said. "Our Index Governance segregates analytical and commercial activities to protect the integrity of our indices."
Step back: Its assertions aside, the paper is a reminder that the process of joining the S&P 500 involves a good deal of discretion. To be eligible for the index, companies need to be US firms, have a market value of at least $11.8 billion and log four consecutive quarters of positive earnings. The ultimate decision, however, is up to an index committee  and their calls have big consequences for where money flows.
Up next
Goldman Sachs (GS), J.B. Hunt, PNC (PNC) and Truist (TFC) report results before US markets open.
Also today: US retail sales for September post at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Coming next week: Earnings season marches ahead with results from Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), Procter & Gamble (PG), Netflix (NFLX), United Airlines (UAL), IBM (IBM) and Tesla (TSLA).

 (CNN)House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and President Joe Biden spoke by phone last Tuesday and zeroed in on a strategy for their party's sweeping economic package, deciding that the time has come to wrap up negotiations, several senior officials in both places tell CNN -- a sign of Democrats' growing restiveness at a critical moment for their domestic agenda.
And for many Democrats in Congress, finalizing a deal now rests mainly on the shoulders of one man: Biden, whom lawmakers want to take a forceful public role in outlining what he wants to see in the final package. The increased focus on the President comes as worries are growing in both the West Wing and on Capitol Hill that dragging talks out into November could end in a stalemate and ultimately doom their prospects going into next year's midterm elections.
Not only that, they say, but it could deepen the sense among voters that Biden can't deliver on the core promise of his presidency -- that he would be able to get government to actually work. 
"You don't want to get to a point," said Rep. Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat running for his state's open Senate seat next year who's concerned about the political impact of an extended impasse, "where we look so indecisive that it can't be repaired with the package that's going to pass and start impacting people's lives."
Privately, Democrats are growing frustrated with Biden's approach.
"The reality right now is that a lot of people are saying, 'Where's Joe Biden? This is his agenda, why isn't he more involved in the negotiations?'" said one House Democrat, reflecting conversations going on among rank-and-file members. 
Even as they lay most of the blame on moderate Democratic Sens. Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona for holding up a deal in the 50-50 Senate, a number of Hill Democrats want Biden to say explicitly what a potential compromise should look like, and start doing more to explain to voters what's at stake. At the moment, the defining legislation of his presidency seems completely lost in Beltway blabber about reconciliation and filibuster reform and numbers so big no one can wrap their heads around them. 
Among those growing increasingly frustrated is Sen. Bernie Sanders, who has told Biden directly that while he feels sympathy for all the pressure Biden is under, the long process has subsumed any efforts to tout the popular items that they're trying to get passed, according to a person familiar with the matter. 
Confusion over Biden's latest offer
That view was apparent on a private conference call with a small group of Democratic lawmakers and Manchin and Sinema last week, during which the two senators were at a loss over Biden's decision to float a new price tag for the plan: $1.9 trillion to $2.2 trillion. The senators said they were not ready to support that dollar amount because they had not yet seen details from the White House over what such a package would encompass, sources familiar with the matter said.
"Let's see your proposal, and negotiate downward," Sinema recalled telling the President, according to one source familiar with the call.
Some Democrats are perplexed.
"Why would the President propose that number without having Manchin and Sinema on board?" one Democratic member said. "There seems to be a pretty big miscalculation by the White House."
Among the issues that need to be sorted out: Whether to drop some key programs proposed in the initial $3.5 trillion plan to cut back on its cost -- a position favored by Manchin and Sinema -- or offer the same number of programs and pare back on the number of years to provide Americans with the benefits, a position backed by progressives. 
'A quagmire' 
Biden and his top aides keep suggesting in private they feel dj vu from the 2020 Democratic primary campaign, perceiving themselves as once again chugging toward a victory despite bad daily headlines and not satisfying the peanut galleries on Capitol Hill or Twitter. 
Even as impatience and anxiety start to spread in the West Wing, Biden still isn't hitting the road more than a rate of about once per week to build support and pressure for the votes he wants. His most recent stop was on Friday in Connecticut for a short speech pitching the broad strokes of his "Build Back Better" agenda. While White House aides argue that national attention follows him wherever he goes, there aren't Democratic holdouts anywhere near Hartford who'd be swayed by the local attention he could generate in more competitive territory. 
Though Covid-19 concerns have somewhat limited White House travel, a senior White House official argued that the main reason Biden hasn't been out more is caution about staking out a position too early that might box him into either overpromising or negotiating against himself. 
White House aides stress that Biden has remained deeply engaged behind the scenes with congressional leaders and other key players, and, essentially, that those who are demanding he do more don't know the extent of what he is doing because they aren't as relevant and involved. 
Though some of the conversations the President has been having with members have been announced by the White House or leaked, he's been having many more, either rolling through several phone calls in one sitting from a patio outside the Oval Office or on a series of Zoom meetings, like those he held in the past two weeks with about a dozen progressives on one day and about a dozen other frontline members the following day. Those calls were a chance for members to state their concerns about how the negotiations and aspects of the bill were playing in their districts, according to senior White House officials. 
"This idea that something is holding the President back just isn't right," a senior administration official said.
There are other, more intimate, chances for the President to speak with lawmakers as well. After bill signings, Biden has repeatedly pulled in members for long listening sessions in the Oval Office. Aides have been engaging with members and other staff themselves and briefing the President, sometimes multiple times per day.
But Biden's decision to let the arguments play out in public without him has contributed to what one senior Democratic aide on the Hill called a "quagmire" without a clear ending. "Multiple constituencies within the caucus thought they were the ones standing up for the President and his agenda as it relates to the legislative process," the aide said. "There's someone who could have settled that spirited disagreement more explicitly." 
Moving cautiously in a high-stakes moment
Biden and his aides fear, though, that taking a clearer position would only harden the opposition and slow down progress even further as he works not just to attract Manchin and Sinema, but also to keep other moderates and progressives from jumping ship. 
Rep. Pramila Jayapal, the Washington state Democrat who chairs the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said that in her conversations with Biden and top aides, she's stressed that "we have to get 50 senators on board, not just two. We've got to get 218 votes in the House, not just nine or 10." 
The compromises already have created intense discomfort, with some members looking at the bipartisan infrastructure deal component of the negotiations and fearing that -- far from being a measure to fight climate change -- it could end up carbon negative, given all the new roads that will be built. Still, Democrats are holding onto hope that if they can actually finish a bill, it will include popular items like paid leave and childcare, and voters will reward them at the polls. 
But failing to pass a bill would also be a boost, Biden told House Democrats on a visit to the House Democratic Caucus at the beginning of the month, to the argument he's heard from Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping that democracy can't work. That argument, said Rep. Jake Auchincloss, a freshman Democrat from Massachusetts, also resonated among some colleagues. 
Many Democrats already see Biden's low-key approach as having cost them the political benefits from the child tax credit in the spring's American Rescue Plan, which has been sending hundreds of dollars every month directly to millions of families in America. Even if they get through the current drama and pass a bill, top Democrats say they're behind in championing what would likely be the single most transformative piece of domestic policy legislation in decades.  
"It's such a lost opportunity for these candidates who are out there," Jayapal said. "That should be their message. It should be ours too. Instead, we're just getting hit by everyone focusing on what the top-line numbers are."
Ryan, as one of those candidates, said he's already feeling that. 
"If people don't know what's in it, that's really our fault," the Ohio Democrat said. "Whatever comes out of it, whatever the items are that in the bill, they are so impactful to people's lives, that if you can't sell this thing to your constituents you need to go find another job -- and you probably will have to."

 (CNN)One of the greatest sources of anxiety for Alaina Castillo has been the letter R.
Rolling Rs is at the heart of learning Spanish and one of its most challenging trills, especially for those unexposed to the language regularly as a young child.
This is a lesson the 21-year-old singer spent years learning in and out of school. And it's one that has paid off for Castillo, particularly on TikTok, which has made efforts to embrace and foster its Hispanic creators. 
The Houston native is part of a flourishing Hispanic and Latinx creator community that has amassed huge followings through videos that succinctly translate cultural traditions and history for a young and captive TikTok audience. One major factor to this growth has been Covid-19, which forced millions of Americans out of work and scores into lockdown during the early months of the pandemic.
TikTok called itself an "economic lifeline for many of its users," according to a lawsuit the company filed against then President Donald Trump in August 2020 to prevent him from banning the app in the United States. It defended the app as a place for people to learn about "serious subjects, including political issues" such as George Floyd's death and the plight of health care workers. 
"TikTok is a window to the world around and beyond us, and we've seen people across the the Latinx and Hispanic diaspora connect with one another on the platform through shared stories and experiences," Kudzi Chikumbu, TikTok's director of creator community, told CNN over email. "Over the past year, people have seen more of their friends and families reflected in the oftentimes comedic, educational and entertaining videos from Latinx creators and have been inspired to join in."
TikTok videos from Hispanic creators are also getting consumed more than ever.
TikTok hashtags #Latino, #Latina, #Familia and #Comida, among others, grew in use by more than 185% since last year's Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from Sept. 15 to Oct. 15 each year, according to data shared by TikTok spokesperson Cynthia Dew. The hashtags #Latino and #Latina have more than 62 billion views combined to date, Dew added.

Millions of those views belong to Castillo, who joined TikTok roughly a year ago to share original Spanish and English songs, as well as covers. 
When she started making music, Castillo thought she'd be singing in English. That changed after her family encouraged her to write records in Spanish after learning the language in high school, Castillo told CNN. 
"There's a lot of different opinions when it comes to Latinx or people like me who are learning Spanish, so I made it my job to write records that bridge the gap between Spanish speakers and those who want to learn but were never taught," she said. 
Providing an education
Fernanda Cortes never thought she'd be talking about Mexican volcanoes on TikTok.
At the start of the pandemic, Cortes found herself scrolling through TikTok for the first time and noticed that there weren't many videos on the history-making Latinas she grew up learning about from her mother, she told CNN. Two of those women were Mara Flix, a Mexican film actress from the 1940s, and Selena Quintanilla Prez, the "Queen of Tejano music" who was killed in 1995 at the age of 23.  
"I decided to make my own series honoring these Latinas and to hopefully connect with other young Latinas," said Cortes, who lives in California. 
Some of the women she's profiled are LGBTQ+ singer Chavela Vargas and Sylvia Rivera, an advocate for transgender and LGBTQ+ communities who participated in the 1969 Stonewall Riots. The clashes between police and protesters outside a New York gay bar, the Stonewall Inn, emboldened a generation of activists into creating a civil rights movement.
"If I can help carry on the legacy of women that have inspired me and hopefully a Latina out there finds my videos and sees someone they identify with and that they can be inspired by too, then that's exactly what I hope to achieve with my series," Cortes said.

Cortes, who is 22 and originally from Guadalajara, Mexico, recently started a series of videos where she discusses different Mexican legends and stories. One was about the Aztec legends surrounding Popocatpetl and Iztacchuatl, two volcanoes near Mexico City.
Cortes started her TikTok account in March 2020 and has since amassed more than 500,000 followers and nearly 31 million likes. In almost the exact same amount of time, Matisse Azul Rainbolt has danced her way to roughly 1.1 million followers and 26 million likes.
Of all the goals Rainbolt, 20, set for herself as a young woman, playing sports was not one of them. 
Those goals were making people smile and sharing her Hispanic culture and dance, specifically baile folklrico, "folkloric dance" in Spanish, she told CNN over email.
One of Rainbolt's most popular videos since launching her TikTok in April 2020 features her dancing in dresses from different parts of Mexico, including Jalisco, Yucatn, and Veracruz.

In other videos, Rainbolt, whose grandparents are from Chihuahua, Mexico, performs famous folklrico choreography like "El Huizache.
"It is an amazing feeling to know that so many people support Mexican culture. I can recall several times in elementary, middle and high school where I was made fun of for doing folklrico or wearing the traditional dresses when I dance. The TikTok community has had an incredibly positive response to my videos, which makes me, and other Hispanic people, feel loved and welcomed," she said.
A perfect union
At the heart of why Hispanics find themselves drawn to TikTok is the importance the online community places on individual identity and direct social interaction, said Alcides Velasquez, an assistant professor in the Department of Communication studies at the University of Kansas.
The Hispanic community tends to focus its social media interest in apps that allow for creation and consumption of visual content, like TikTok, said Velasquez, whose research includes social media and political activism and participation among Latinos in the US.
 "These types of applications and the content that is shared through them has become an increasingly important part of how members of different social group perform their identity," Velasquez said via email. 
One of the ways TikTok has helped Hispanics perform their identity is through specially made stickers like a crown, fiery pepper and avocado that creators can place atop their videos, the company said. This year TikTok also launched a series of live videos featuring Latinx creators celebrating themes like "La Comida" to "La Cultura Pop," the company said. 
One hashtag that TikTok has supported the last two years, and which captures the heart of Hispanic culture, is #FamiliaLatina, or Latin family.
The importance of family and its influence on social media habits cannot be understated, Velasquez said. 
"In terms of how Latinos get introduced to Latino culture, family remains the most important source," he added.
Among Hispanic TikTok users, Gipsy Rodrguez, 24, truly understands how important family is. 
Rodrguez runs the TikTok account moda2000, which is named after the gown shop owned and operated by Rodrguez and her family in Anaheim, California. The business is perhaps best known for selling ornate quinceaera dresses worn to a coming-of-age ritual in some Hispanic cultures that marks a girl's entrance into womanhood.
The centuries-old quinceaera tradition began as a ceremony to introduce girls to society on their 15th birthday and signaled that they were prepared for marriage.
"Due to social media, quinceaera celebrations have become more popular that now, more than ever, girls are deciding to have a party and go above and beyond," Rodrguez said. "It has not been an easy process [or] journey, but it has been rewarding because everyday that we come into work we get to make someone's face light up, their dreams come true, and most  importantly, making memories with their family while celebrating their culture."
Money moves 
After losing his job in early 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic, one of Jess Morales' friends introduced him to TikTok and a community that would end up changing his life.
On Aug. 24, 2020, Morales took $100 and donated it to a local street vendor after being inspired by TikTok user Viridiana Serrano, who had made a name for herself through videos of her giving away money to hawkers.
Morales, 24, is the creator of juixxe, a TikTok account launched in early 2020 where he shares videos of himself meeting with vendors around Southern California. He has an audience of 1.3 million followers and has since collected more than $130,000 that he's given away to vendors thanks to the generosity of TikTok users, he told CNN over email. 
That support has also come from TikTok itself. 

Morales, whose family hails from San Luis Potos, Mexico, was included in the company's second cohort of Latinx TikTok Trailblazers -- a group of creators dubbed "the next-generation of Latinx digital entertainment leaders, nominated by the community for their creativity, passion, and authentic spirit," the company said in a news release last month. 
TikTok has also partnered with the Hispanic Heritage Foundation through #CreciendoconTikTok, a $150,000 grant fund aimed at elevating 30 small Latinx businesses across the US, the company said. 
The positive response to his videos and generosity of the TikTok community was a complete surprise, Morales said.
"Street vendors have often been overlooked, but these videos bring light to some of their stories and their struggles," he said. 
In one of Morales' most watched videos, he can be seen giving one vendor $20,000 in cash. 
The vendor named Jess "was recorded being harassed by a group of guys late at night" and it broke Morales' heart, he said.
"I think that the community who watches can relate or connect to these vendors in a way," Morales said. "The online community is extremely powerful and their support truly shows the strength of unity within a community."

 (CNN)Nicole began her morning with a simple prayer: "Please let my car start today."  
She had already gotten the mandatory ultrasound, scrounged up $595 and taken time off work. But at that moment -- with her pregnancy at exactly six weeks -- getting an abortion in her home state boiled down to her hatchback's temperamental engine turning over.    
On that Friday morning in early October, as heavy rains and flash floods swept through Houston, Nicole was cornered into making a painful decision on a hairline timeframe. She was one of thousands of Texas women feeling the impact of a new state law banning abortions after embryonic cardiac activity is detected, usually around six weeks of pregnancy -- often before a woman even realizes she is pregnant.   
As the clock ticked away, with what felt like the world working against her, Nicole finally got her car to start. Soon, she ran across a wet parking lot into Aaron Women's Clinic for her morning appointment. 
If she'd had more time to think, she said, she may not have gotten the abortion at all. But without the flexibility to plan her future, or the resources to go to another state for the procedure, the mother of two said she made the best decision she could in the limited window she was afforded.  
"I just had to honestly just make the decision quickly and say you know what, I'm 33 years old, I have a week and a half to kind of decide this, and it's just going to be a 'yes,' honestly, at this point," Nicole, who asked that her last name not be used, told CNN minutes before having the procedure. 
As Texas' law hurtles toward the US Supreme Court, women in Nicole's shoes have been forced to make rushed decisions or travel hundreds of miles to access health care. The choice presents women with a staggering list of logistical challenges, including what to do about child care, how to cover the cost of travel and whether they can miss work -- which, for many women, prove insurmountable. The restrictions not only control where women can receive abortions, but also impact both the type and timeliness of the procedure. And, for some, it means not receiving care at all. 
The struggle transcends Texas. A wave of restrictive abortion laws is moving through legislatures across the United States, increasing barriers and mileage between women and abortion providers.  
What's more, some legal experts say there is a very real possibility that by next year, the conservative majority on the Supreme Court could overturn Roe v. Wade -- the 1973 landmark decision that affirmed the constitutional right to abortion nearly a half-century ago. To do so would trigger abortion bans across a vast swath of the country and, in essence, strip away a constitutional right that has protected women's choice for an entire generation.  
As law professor Joanna Grossman put it, "It's just a really scary time to be a woman." 
'They are just in panic mode' 
At Aaron Women's Clinic -- an abortion facility sandwiched between a pair of auto shops in north Houston that has been in business since a year before Roe v. Wade -- Linda Shafer, the clinic administrator, peered into the beige waiting room. Small paintings of flowers hung on either side of 11 empty chairs, bringing a little burst of color to the otherwise drab room, where the blinds were fully drawn. Nicole barely kept her appointment that morning, but five others missed theirs.  
Maybe it was the flash floods, maybe they couldn't come up with the money in time, or maybe they just changed their minds. Regardless, rescheduling would not be an option. Shafer clutched the gold cross around her neck, knowing that come Monday, all five women would be too far into their pregnancies for the doctors at her clinic to help -- and, if they still needed abortion providers, she would have to tell them to go out of state. 
In her 22 years at the clinic, she'd borne witness to change after change in the state's abortion laws -- with restrictions steadily chipping away at her ability to serve patients. At this point, she said, women seeking abortions are often in tears while she's resigned to a sense of helplessness.  
Around the six-week mark, the patients "don't know where to go, they don't know what to do, they don't have the funds," she said. "They are just in panic mode." 
The new law has dramatically transformed Texas women's access to abortion into an hourslong odyssey across state lines. Before the ban went into effect, women of reproductive age in the state -- between 15 and 49 years old -- had to drive a median distance of roughly 19 miles to the nearest abortion clinic, according to a CNN analysis. Now that Texas clinics are turning most pregnant women away, they are forced to drive a median distance of 243 miles to the nearest out-of-state clinic. 
For some women in the Rio Grande Valley on the US-Mexico border, the nearest out-of-state clinic in the United States is 600 miles away, in Shreveport, Louisiana -- a 10-hour journey each way.  
One study examining Texas data found that a more than 200-mile increase in driving distance to the nearest abortion clinic can cut the abortion rate by as much as 44%. 
"Throughout history, we have seen that patients of color, patients who live in rural areas and patients who have less economic means -- they are the patients who are disproportionately affected by any barriers in health care," said Kristina Tocce, medical director at Planned Parenthood Rocky Mountains, which includes New Mexico, Colorado and southern Nevada. "History is repeating itself," she said. 
A few organizations -- including the Lilith Fund and Fund Texas Choice -- help women by providing financial support for travel. But for some, that's not enough.  
"There are people who, it don't matter how much money we give them, they can't leave the state," said the Rev. Katherine Ragsdale, former president of the National Abortion Federation. 
For most women in Texas, the nearest providers across the border are clinics in Shreveport and Oklahoma City, according to a CNN analysis of census data and driving distances.  
In September, Planned Parenthood clinics in nearby states saw more than 11 times as many patients from Texas than they had in previous years, the organization said. The only clinic in Shreveport told CNN that Texas patients now comprise 50% of its roster, up from 20% before the ban. 
In search of available appointments, some patients are traveling even farther to see a provider sooner, said Emily Wales, interim president and CEO of Planned Parenthood Great Plains, which includes Oklahoma.   
"They're coming to other states, but the majority, I think, are actually waiting longer to stay closer to home," she said. 
Planned Parenthood reported seeing women from Texas at its clinics in Kansas, Colorado, Nevada and even as far as New York. 
Most of the women the Aaron Women's Clinic serves probably won't make it out of the state, according to Shafer. She said most of her patients are from minority communities and often don't have the resources to travel for an abortion. At the same time, she added, they can't afford to have a baby. 
All she can do sometimes, she told CNN, is pray for her patients. 
"Lord, if it be your will ... women need help too," she said. "Don't forget about us."  
Legal maneuvers leave women in limbo 
As Gov. Greg Abbott signed the new law in May, he declared that "our creator endowed us with the right to life and millions of children lose their right to life every year because of abortion," and said the bill would "work to save those lives." 
While Abbott echoed rhetoric used by anti-abortion activists for decades, the law he signed was unprecedented: It allows private citizens to sue abortion providers, in a novel method to evade judicial review.
That has led to a series of head-spinning legal maneuvers, leaving patients and providers in the state in limbo. Polls show that while Texans are closely divided on the new bill, a majority of Americans are against it. 
Just over a week after the Texas ban went into effect, the Biden administration challenged the law, after declaring that it "blatantly violates the constitutional right established under Roe v. Wade."  
A federal judge initially sided with the Department of Justice and put a temporary block on the abortion ban, but Texas appealed, and days later the appellate court signed an administrative stay, essentially letting the ban go back into effect. The DOJ unsuccessfully asked the appeals court to lift the stay late last week.  
On Friday, the Supreme Court rejected a request from the Biden administration to temporarily block the law, but agreed to hear oral arguments on it on November 1.
Even during the brief temporary block, providers were hesitant to perform abortions because the new law allows for retroactive lawsuits. Aaron Women's Clinic decided not to offer abortions past six weeks of pregnancy during the reprieve because of that legal uncertainty. 
"It's almost like you have to check the law every morning when you get up before you go to work," Shafer said, "because you don't know what changed overnight." 
More abortion restrictions nationwide 
While neighboring states still provide a safe haven from the Texas ban, that reprieve may be short-lived. 
Despite the dropping national abortion rate, a record number of abortion restrictions -- 106 -- have been enacted across 19 states this year, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a reproductive rights think tank. The previous spike came in 2011, when 89 restrictions were enacted. 
A six-week abortion ban, similar to the Texas law, was set to take effect in Oklahoma on November 1 until a state judge blocked it earlier this month. The state is expected to appeal. Florida Republicans introduced a bill, modeled on the Texas law, that prohibits abortions after six weeks and uses a similar legal mechanism to allow private citizens to sue abortion providers. 
A Mississippi abortion law -- which bars most abortions after 15 weeks without exceptions for rape or incest -- will be reviewed by the Supreme Court on December 1, giving the conservative majority on the high court an opportunity to reconsider Roe v. Wade.The court is likely to deliver its ruling on the case in June 2022.  
"If you look at the current Supreme Court right now, there are six people who are on record opposed to abortion rights," said Grossman, a law professor at Southern Methodist University, referring to the six conservative members of the court. 
The fact that the justices allowed the Texas law to go into effect suggests that "they're going to get rid of abortion no matter what," she said.  
Priscilla Smith, senior fellow at Yale Law School's Program for the Study of Reproductive Justice, shares similar suspicions.  
"There's no reason to believe that they're not going to do it," said Smith, "except for the fact that they like to do things quietly" -- suggesting that the court could at least undercut Roe v. Wade, if not reverse it. 
If Roe v. Wade is overturned next year, 11 states -- Arkansas, Idaho, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas and Utah -- have so-called trigger laws that would immediately ban all or nearly all abortions, effectively creating a blackout for the procedure across large swaths of the country. Abortion would still be accessible in states such as New York, which passed legislation to protect abortion rights. But many women, particularly in the South, would have to travel long distances to get abortion access.  
"The abortion map is just going to look like the presidential election map," Grossman said.  
Clinic closures and wait times take a toll 
Abortion laws have been used as political footballs for decades, but they have immediate real-life implications for women such as Caroline, a 27-year-old Texan. She waited a month and a half for an abortion appointment more than a thousand miles away, and was 18 weeks pregnant at the time of the procedure.  
The wait was devastating. As a woman living with domestic abuse and few financial resources, she said, abortion was her only option. 
"A lot of women in domestic violence situations," she told CNN, her voice cracking, "know that if they give birth, that child will be turned into a weapon." 
Caroline, who asked to be identified by a pseudonym, said she agonized over her decision while waiting for her appointment at a Colorado clinic, the first to respond to her request. "I haven't been able to sleep and eat," she said. "Pregnancy takes a toll on your body and my body's just been hurting." 
Pregnancy complications at 17 weeks, just a few days before her procedure, made Caroline certain about her decision.  
Ten years ago, Caroline would have been able to get an abortion at 62 providers in Texas. But over the past decade, a string of restrictions has slowly chipped away at abortion access in the state, forcing facilities to shut down. In 2017, 43% of Texas women lived in counties without clinics that provided abortions, according to data from the Guttmacher Institute. 
Jason Lindo, an economics professor at Texas A&M University who has studied the effects of abortion restrictions in Texas, said many of the clinics that were forced to close down after previous restrictions never reopened.  
"Even if the new law is successfully challenged, it may continue to do damage," he said.  
At Aaron Women's Clinic in Houston, that fear may become reality. With fewer patients able to come in, the clinic has already had to let go of three employees, a staff member told CNN.  
"We're at 25% patient load. If this continues, I don't know if we're going to remain open," she said.  
Restrictive abortion laws shuttering clinics across the country have forced a growing number of women to leave their states for the procedure. In New Mexico, for example, about a fourth of abortions in 2018 were performed for out-of-state residents -- one of the highest rates in the United States and a nearly fivefold increase from the 2009 rate, according to the latest data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Clinic closures in one state often lead to busier clinics in neighboring states. In 2018, Texas, the second-most populous state in the country, performed more abortions after six weeks than all its bordering states combined, according to the CDC data -- procedures that clinics in Louisiana, New Mexico and Oklahoma are likely to inherit following the latest ban. 
Some clinics have been able to increase staffing to help with the recent influx of patients, but even so, providers in New Mexico and Nevada have wait times just under three weeks and Planned Parenthood in Oklahoma is booking appointments for up to four weeks out.  
When women need abortion care, Tocce, the medical director at Planned Parenthood, said, even a two-week wait is an "eternity." 
'A very realistic fear' for the future 
Tucked into the third floor of a sleek, black office building in Houston -- just a few miles south of Aaron Women's Clinic -- sits Houston Women's Reproductive Services. It opened in 2019, a few years after the Supreme Court ruled that two provisions of an earlier Texas abortion law -- which led to a wave of abortion clinic closures -- were unconstitutional. 
Here, the nearly all-female staff affectionately refer to their clinic as "Ruth," in honor of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a staunch defender of abortion rights who died last year. One staff member, wearing a necklace resembling one of Ginsburg's famous collars, pulled up a pant leg to flash her RBG socks at visitors. 
Still, amid the cheerful phone greetings and comforting smiles with patients, there was an undercurrent of concern about the future of "Ruth" and its patients. 
"How did we get here?" asked Kitty, who has worked in abortion care since the early 1970s and now helps women at the Houston clinic navigate their options through the increasingly restrictive abortion laws in their state. "I feel like we're on a conveyor belt going backwards." She asked that her last name not be used in order to protect her family's privacy. 
As abortion rights are diminished, experts warn, women will increasingly have to seek alternatives beyond traditional clinics. 
When Abbott's executive order last year temporarily ruled abortions to be non-essential procedures during the Covid-19 pandemic, Aid Access, a telemedicine service, saw demand for abortion medication by mail in Texas nearly double.  
That's likely to happen again because of the new ban, said University of Texas professor Abigail Aiken, who is studying the impact of the law. Cost and clinic proximity, she explained, motivate women to consider telemedicine and abortion medication by mail. 
Although a new law set to take effect in December bans the mailing of abortion pills in Texas, Aid Access provider Christie Pitney said this won't stop the organization from delivering the medication to those in the state requesting them. The organization, which has clashed with US regulators in the past, is headquartered in Austria, and Rebecca Gomperts, Aid Access' founder and the doctor prescribing the pills to patients in Texas, is licensed in Europe.  
"I think we'll have to see what happens," said Pitney, "but I believe that (Gomperts) being based out of Europe kind of gives her a cushion and protection there." 
While Food and Drug Administration rules require women to receive abortion medication from a medical provider in person, the agency has declined to enforce the policy during the Covid-19 pandemic, citing a scientific review of clinical outcomes and adverse effects of abortion medication.  
The World Health Organization deems abortion medication safe for at-home use up to 12 weeks of pregnancy without the supervision of a medical provider.  
Still, with options for abortions dwindling, some medical providers fear reproductive rights in the United States could circle back to pre-Roe days -- when more dangerous methods of self-managed abortions and unregulated providers were commonplace. 
"We have seen that when patients aren't able to access safe, legal abortion, that doesn't stop abortion from happening," said Tocce. "Will patients be attempting to self-abort or utilize unsafe means? I think that is a very realistic fear."  
In Houston, a finicky car that finally bothered to start saved Nicole from going back to square one -- debating options that would have grown more limited as the hours wore on.  
"I don't know what would have been my next options," she told CNN in the minutes before her appointment. "I'm just grateful that my car came on today."  
That afternoon, after her appointment at Aaron Women's Clinic, a nurse gingerly walked Nicole out of the front door and into the drizzly parking lot, where her car was waiting for the drive home. 
Methodology 
To find the median driving distance to abortion clinics for Texas women of reproductive age, CNN used data on age and sex from the 2015-2019 American Community Survey. For each census tract in Texas, CNN found the abortion clinic closest to the center of the tract and calculated the driving distance using an application programming interface from Google Maps.
In analyzing CDC data on out-of-state abortions, CNN excluded abortions if it was unknown whether a patient traveled out of state or had the procedure in her home state.

New York (CNN Business)Workers are saying enough is enough.
And many of them are either hitting the picket lines or quitting their jobs as a result.
The changing dynamics of the US labor market, which has put employees rather than employers in the driver's seat in a way not seen for decades, is allowing unions to flex their muscle.
Already on strike are 10,000 workers at John Deere (DE), who hit the picket lines early Thursday after rejecting a tentative deal which would have improved wages and benefits. They joined 1,400 strikers at Kellogg (K) who are upset with seven-day work weeks and a two-tier retirement system. Other unions are preparing for walkouts of their own.
The overwhelming majority of strikers and potential strikers are doing so for the first time in their careers. Many say they are driven not just by wages or benefits. They say they are striking, or planning to strike, in a bid to do their jobs the way they believe they should be done, and to gain basic improvements in the quality of their lives, such as time with their families, which they say they deserve.
One of the main issues running through many of these strikes, or looming strikes, is workers' anger. 
"My nurses and health care professionals are angry," said Elizabeth Hawkins, the negotiator for a union of 32,000 nurses which could soon be striking 14 hospitals and hundreds of clinics in Southern California and Hawaii run by health care giant Kaiser Permanente. 

And pilots from American Airlines (AAL) are set to hold informational pickets at the Miami airport on Tuesday, followed by pickets in Chicago and Dallas the following two weeks. 
Airline employees work under a different labor law than most workers, one which limits their freedom to strike. So pilots will not be striking, but will instead protest work and scheduling conditions. 
Workers across the US airline industry are saying they have reached a breaking point. Many predict their problems could soon be felt by passengers in the kind of meltdown of service Southwest Airlines (LUV) recently experienced. Southwest pilots are also preparing their own picket lines. 
Sometimes just the threat of a strike is enough to get workers what they are seeking. Until late Saturday night 60,000 Hollywood workers were set to go on strike early Monday over such basic quality-of-life issues as meal breaks and time off on weekends. A work stoppage by the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE) could have halted production of multiple movies, television shows and streaming series, marking what would have been the union's first national strike and potentially the largest strike against US private sector employers in 14 years.
But late Saturday the union reached a deal for 40,000 of those workers on the West Coast,   and a deal for the other 20,000 spread across the country is now expected to be reached before the Monday morning deadline. The deal reached Saturday won the union's top negotiating goals, including better guarantees on meal breaks, and time off between shifts and on weekends.
"Workers should have improved morale and be more alert. Health and safety standards have been upgraded," said Mike Miller, a union vice president and head of its motion picture bargaining unit.
Nonunion workers also hit the bricks
It is not just union members walking out. 
A record 4.3 million workers quit their jobs in August, the overwhelming majority of whom are not members of a union. While many of them left their previous job for a new one, nearly 800,000 jobseekers in September were unemployed because they quit their previous job without a new one lined up. 
"Strikes are only one measure of unrest. It's also a general sense of frustration," said Todd Vachon, an assistant professor and director of labor education at Rutgers University.
The lowest monthly reading on record of workers quitting in this century occurred in August 2009, just after the end of the Great Recession, when 1.6 million workers quit. 
But the current level is significantly above the norm. The 4.3 million who left their jobs in August was a 19% jump, or about 700,000 more people, than during the same month in 2019 ahead of the pandemic, and nearly 60% above the average since the government started tracking job quitters in 2000.
"The nonunion workers simply don't want to stay in or return to back-breaking or mind-numbing jobs," said Robert Reich, a former Secretary of Labor in the Clinton administration who wrote an essay comparing the record quit rate to a "general strike" which has been seen across wide ranges of industries and companies in some other countries but never in the United States. 
Reich said the pandemic may have done more than shake up the supply and demand for labor in the US jobs market. It may have caused a reevaluation of the very nature and quality of work. 
A similar thing happened after World War I and World War II, when workers made real gains because of the disruption caused by nation-changing events, Reich said.
"It may have taken a pandemic to open people's eyes," he said. "Many people are frazzled. A lot of workers are saying, 'I've had it!' They're fed up and don't want to take it anymore."
More leverage for strikers than in the past
Strikers have always been at a disadvantage. Strike benefits from unions pay only a fraction of lost wages, and it is never certain strikers will win back better pay or benefits than those they lost while on the picket line.
In the past, there was always a risk employers would hire replacement workers to take the jobs of those on strike, or even shut down their operations entirely. 
Many labor historians believe a significant turning point in US labor-management relations, one which weakened union power for decades, was when President Ronald Reagan fired air traffic controllers and hired replacements when their union, the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization, or PATCO, went on strike in 1981.
Today, 40 years later, employers are having trouble finding workers to fill their normal job needs, let alone find workers to take strikers' jobs.
"Labor fell into tough times following PATCO," said Alexander Colvin, dean of Cornell University's School of Industrial and Labor Relations. "The inability of employers to find replacement workers in this market does shift the power back to labor."
Replacement jobs, not replacement workers
Instead of strikers worrying about replacement workers, now management has to worry the strikers might find replacement jobs.
"There's jobs everywhere, many offering hiring bonuses," said Trevor Bidelman, president of the local union in Battle Creek, Michigan, which went on strike against Kellogg earlier this month. "If necessary, we can go out and get a job to supplement [our] income and stay out longer."
Nurses preparing for a strike at Kaiser Permanente say they are ready to do the same.
"Nurses are in great demand right now. If we go on strike, I don't feel bad about [working elsewhere] to support my family," said Liz Marlow, a registered nurse in the emergency department at the Kaiser hospital in Fontana, California. 
She's been on disability leave, recovering from the effects of Covid, but she expected to return to work by Nov. 1. Now she could be on strike instead, a scenario she never imagined, but she sees no choice but to force management to fill nursing openings and giving nurses the help they need to serve patients.
"What we're asking for first and foremost is patient safety," she said. "It truly isn't about money. The most important thing is the investment and supporting the front-line staff in order for us to our jobs the way they should be done. It [the staffing shortages] causes fatigue, it causes mental strain, a lot of challenging factors."
The frustration with employers not doing enough to get workers the help they need is another common theme.
Bidelman, whose union is striking against Kellogg, said his members are upset with working seven days a week, and rarely get time off for family events, even on weekends. "When people retire, the company doesn't replace them," he said. "They treat us like a commodity in there."
Past agreements no longer acceptable
Now that Kellogg is doing well, with an operating profit for the first half of this year up 9% from the same period in 2019, concessions the union previously agreed to -- such as lower pay and benefits for new hires -- are no longer acceptable to the membership, he said.
"What this boils down to is that [in past negotiations] everybody had been willing to compromise to avoid a fight," Bidelman said. "They've been bullying us at the table for some time. Now our members are angry,  angry at the total disrespect they're continuing to show us. We're digging our feet in."
The same dynamic can be seen in the John Deere strike. The maker of farm and construction equipment has been enjoying record profits and has a strong order book ahead. And it has been hiring, adding about 1,000 union members since last October, bringing union membership there to more than 10,000.
The negotiating team of the United Auto Workers union reached a tentative contract with the Deere two weeks ago, which included immediate pay raises of between 5% and 6% and improvements in pensions and benefits. But it was not enough to satisfy rank and file membership, who also were upset about the continuation of two different kinds of pension plans. The strike started Thursday at 11 Midwest factories and 3 distribution centers after 90% of the membership voted no on the proposed deal.
"What was on the table wasn't a horrible package. But the rank-and-file saw this as an opportunity to demand more," said Rutgers University's Vachon. "Manufacturing in this country has been in decline for decades. Employees have worried about automation, jobs moving overseas. It's meant rounds after rounds of concessionary bargaining and givebacks. The Deere workers said, 'Not this time. They're making hands-over-fist profits. We want more.'"
"I think workers do feel newfound leverage in this moment, especially coming out of the pandemic where they were deemed essential, rather than considered expendable," said Tim Schlittner, communications director for the AFL-CIO. "They're making the decision they will no longer settle for less."
Rising number of strikes
The Bureau of Labor Statistics shows only a dozen strikes through September this year, fewer than in the same period of 2019 ahead of the pandemic. But the BLS counts only strikes with 1,000 or more strikers. Many strikes involve hundreds, not thousands of workers, sometimes even less than 100. 
Cornell University, however, tracks strikes of all sizes, and its stats show 181 strikes so far this year, with 38 strikes just in the first two weeks of October, more than any other full month so far this year. Those most recent strikes, 22 of which started this month, involve 24,000 workers in total, prompting  the AFL-CIO to dub this month Striketober.
"No one likes to go on strike. Let's be clear," Liz Shuler, the new president of the AFL-CIO, the federation of most of the nation's major unions, told CNN on Thursday. 
Strikes occur only when "we are pushed to a limit where basic fairness and equity are violated. You can't just continue to see wages go down, health care benefits taken away, retirement security disappear without saying enough is enough. And that's where we are, we're at a breaking point."
Much of the harder line by labor is coming, as in the Deere strike, more from the rank-and-file than from union leadership, said Cornell University's Colvin. "There's definitely some more labor militancy in the air," he said. "There's higher expectations, and there's a willingness to not settle for what happened in the past."
Obstacles remain for unions
But it's still too early to say what the long-term effect of this new attitude will be, or whether there is a more permanent shift in favor of organized labor.
A recent Gallup poll showed 68% of respondents have a positive view of unions; the best reading for the question since 1965, and up from only 48% in 2009. Younger workers are even bigger backers of unions, with 77% of those 34 and younger having a positive view.
But union membership nationwide is down to only 6% of workers at businesses, limiting their clout in most industries.
The highest-profile organizing effort of the last year, at an Amazon (AMZN) warehouse in Alabama, failed badly. And there is little chance a union effort to change laws governing organizing will pass any time soon.
Even so, "the current situation is a recipe for long-lasting change," said Vachon, the Rutgers professor. "I can't predict that will happen, but the pieces are there for that to be a reality."

 (CNN)Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, who is vaccinated against Covid-19, tested positive for the virus on Tuesday morning, according to department spokesperson Marsha Espinosa.
"Secretary Mayorkas tested positive this morning for the COVID-19 virus after taking a test as part of routine pre-travel protocols," Espinosa said in a statement. "Secretary Mayorkas is experiencing only mild congestion; he is fully vaccinated and will isolate and work at home per CDC protocols and medical advice. Contact tracing is underway." 
Mayorkas had been scheduled to travel to Colombia this week along with Secretary of State Antony Blinken, but he is now working from home. While in Bogot, Blinken was scheduled to co-lead a meeting among government officials to address migrationissues with regional partners.
This is at least the second time Covid-19 has interrupted Mayorkas' work schedule since taking office. In July, Mayorkas worked virtually after coming in close contact with a DHS employee who later tested positive for Covid-19. At the time, he had no symptoms and tested negative twice. 
The secretary traveled to Mexico earlier this month and has participated in several in-person events in recent weeks. He attended an outdoor cybersecurity event last week and on Saturday, appeared at a Peace Officers Memorial Service where he stood outside alongside President Joe Biden, first lady Jill Biden and FBI Director Christopher Wray.

A White House official told CNN that "no White House principal has been determined to be a close contact of Secretary Mayorkas, given that the most recent contact was at the outdoors FOP event outside of the 48-hour close contact window."
The news of Mayorkas' positive test comes weeks after Biden imposed stringent new vaccine rules on federal workers, large employers and health care staff in an attempt to contain the latest surge of Covid-19.
A key provision in the plan is directing the Labor Department to require all businesses with 100 or more employees ensure their workers are either vaccinated or tested once a week.  
The President also signed an executive order requiring all government employees be vaccinated against Covid-19, with no option of being regularly tested to opt out, as well as an accompanying order directing the same standard be applied to employees of contractors who do business with the federal government.
DHS is working to comply with Biden's executive order by November 22, a DHS spokesperson previously told CNN. 
The department developed an online tool for personnel to report their vaccination status, a system that is available to all DHS employees other than the US Secret Service and US Coast Guard, which have their own reporting systems.   
Although, DHS declined to release department-wide interim vaccinate rate data, some of the agencies within the department have shared progress on workforce vaccinations.  
As of Tuesday, 89.1% of the Coast Guard's active duty workforce has been fully vaccinated, and 92.9% of the active duty workforce has been vaccinated with at least one dose, according to US Coast Guard media relations deputy LCDR Brittany Panetta.
Mayorkas and the department have also been heavily involved in the management of border travel needs and restrictions amid the pandemic. 
Earlier this month, the administration announced plans to ease restrictions on cross-border travel for fully vaccinated visitors starting in early November, relaxing bans that have been in place for more than 18 months.
The new rules, which are similar to those announced for international air passengers, will be rolled out in a phased approach. The first phase, kicking off in early November, will allow fully vaccinated visitors traveling for non-essential reasons, like visiting friends or for tourism, to cross US land borders. The second phase, starting in early January 2022, will apply the vaccination requirement to all inbound foreign travelers, whether traveling for essential or non-essential reasons.
"These new vaccination requirements deploy the best tool we have in our arsenal to keep people safe and prevent the spread of Covid-19 and will create a consistent, stringent protocol for all foreign nationals traveling into the United States whether by land or air," a senior administration official previously told reporters.
This story has been updated with additional reporting Tuesday.
CNN's Kaitlan Collins contributed to this report. 
Las Vegas (CNN Business)When members of the cannabis industry descended upon Las Vegas last week for the biggest trade show in the business, there was something stirring in the air. It wasn't the aroma of a freshly lit joint, but rather a sense that everything seems to be coming up roses for the industry.
Despite a global pandemic, discombobulated supply chains, ballooning inflation and an ongoing fight to legalize marijuana on a federal level, the cannabis industry in America is flourishing. 
Sales hit $20 billion in 2020, are on pace to top $26 billion this year, and are projected to leapfrog to $45.9 billion in 2025, according to data from Marijuana Business Daily that were shared at the MJBizCon, the industry's annual trade show. The nearly $46 billion in sales would make the cannabis industry larger than the craft beer industry, said Chris Walsh, chief executive officer and president of MJBizDaily. 
"These are potentially conservative numbers with what we see playing out," Walsh said during the kickoff to the three-day event.
Snowballing US sales shouldn't come as a surprise. At this point, the majority of Americans live in a state where some form of cannabis is legal. More than two-thirds of US states have legalized medical cannabis, of those, 18 have legalized cannabis for recreational use, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Indeed, the cannabis industry got a pandemic-era boost from consumers flush with stimulus money, people forced to stay home with little to do, and dispensaries in certain states being deemed essential businesses. Many states, including trailblazers like Colorado, posted record sales in 2020. 
But the past 12 to 18 months show there is more to the story than a Covid bump, Walsh said. Sales continued to accelerate at a record pace in markets across the US -- notably in established states, such as Colorado, Washington and Oregon, Walsh said. 
"You're seeing the next phase of a maturing industry take hold here," Walsh told CNN Business.
Not long ago, quarter of a billion dollar deals were few and far between in this business. Now they're happening in quick succession: The latest being e-commerce and tech firm Dutchie, which this month raised $350 million in its latest investor round. 
The industry is also expanding rapidly and creating jobs, said Karson Humiston, CEO and founder of Vangst, which runs a cannabis industry-centric job recruiting site.
It's estimated that there were 321,000 full-time jobs in the cannabis industry in 2020, up from 234,700 the year before, according to a report released earlier this year from Leafly and Whitney Economics.
"Take a look around," Humiston said, gesturing to bustling crowds in the exposition hall. "People want to get out of their old-school, dying industry, and they want to move into cannabis. This is it. Now is the moment to get involved, because it's never going to be this small again."
Still, plenty of challenges and uncertainties persist. 
The US Food and Drug Administration has yet to provide official guidance on how hemp-derived cannabinoids, such as CBD, can be included in commercial products; California, the nation's biggest cannabis market, continues to see sales siphoned to a large, unregulated industry; the industry has grown less diverse over the last couple of years; and programs to address aspects, such as social equity or repairing the harms from the War on Drugs are still in their fledgling phase. 
On Capitol Hill, the whispers of federal marijuana reform and legalization have grown into a clamor. But because of a lack of consensus among lawmakers and industry members, change is not on the immediate horizon, Walsh said.
Some want incremental, but necessary, steps such as banking and tax reform. Others hope to tackle legalization in one fell swoop with comprehensive legislation. 
"I'm still doubtful that we're going to see any significant federal reform next year ... including in banking," Walsh told CNN Business, referencing longstanding efforts to change federal law to allow state-legal cannabis businesses (and those that serve them) access to traditional banking services. 
Because marijuana is considered a Schedule I substance, some financial institutions have been reluctant to serve the industry -- leaving operators with the inability to get small business loans, pandemic relief, insurance and disaster aid. Operators flush with cash present significant safety concerns, such as theft, robberies, assaults and even murders, backers of the bill have said.
The waiting game is nothing new for the cannabis industry. Although it has been growing and expanding in leaps and bounds, its legal progress has come in inches. 
"I agree that it's an uphill slog to see federal legalization, but what we're putting on the table is inevitability," Steven Hawkins, CEO of the US Cannabis Council and executive director of the Marijuana Policy Project, said during a MJBizCon panel on federal legalization. "When you get to the point when half of the country has legalized for adult-use, we have now set a stage for inevitability. And that begins to change the tone and tenor in Washington."

 (CNN)A cheap, generically available anti-depressant may reduce the risk of severe Covid-19 disease by close to a third in people at high risk, researchers reported Wednesday.
A trial among about 1,500 patients in Brazil showed those who took the drug, known as fluvoxamine, were less likely to progress to severe disease and to require hospitalization. 

The drug, sold under the brand name Luvox, is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) most often used to treat obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and depression. But it can affect inflammation, said Dr. Angela Reiersen, an associate professor of psychiatry at Washington University in St. Louis who worked on the study, published in The Lancet Global Health.
"Fluvoxaminemay reduce the production of inflammatory molecules called cytokines, that can be triggered by SARS-CoV-2 infection," Reiersen said in a statement. The drug may also reduce blood platelets, which may affect the clotting effects of coronavirus infection.
Reierson and colleagues gave 741 volunteers with Covid-19 100 mg offluvoxaminetwice a day for 10 days while 756 volunteers got a placebo.
Among the patients who got fluvoxamine, 79 -- or about 11% -- needed treatment in an ER or hospital room compared to nearly 16% of those given placebos. It was a 5% decrease in absolute risk and a 32% decrease in relative risk.
More study is needed to see if the drug might be added to the treatments given to coronavirus patients, but it's cheap. "A 10-day course of fluvoxamine costs approximately $4 even in well-resourced settings," the researchers wrote.

It's not a cure, but if the drug can help keep patients out of the hospital, it would be useful.
"Given fluvoxamine's safety, tolerability, ease of use, low cost, and widespread availability, these findings might influence national and international guidelines on the clinical management of COVID-19," they concluded.
 A related drug, Prozac, or fluoxetine, is also cheap and even more widely available, and the researchers said this drug should be studied to see if it might help.
"It is now crucial to establish whether a class effect exists and whether these drugs can be used interchangeably for COVID-19," they wrote.

It wasn't a perfect study, they noted. It was done in Brazil, and the patients had a higher rate of hospitalization than Covid-19 patients in other clinical trials.
"There is no standard of care that exists for early treatment of COVID-19 and various advocacy groups promote different interventions, including some of those evaluated in this and our previous trials. Furthermore, there is little understanding of who is at greatest risk of disease progression from this disease as some patients with numerous risk factors do recover quickly whereas some others with less established risk factors might not," they wrote.

 (CNN)The number of people who have died from Covid-19 around the world has surpassed five million, according to data held by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center. 
JHU's global tally of deaths reached 5,000,425 at 4:50 a.m. ET on Monday. It reports that 197,116 people have died of Covid-19 worldwide in the past 28 days. The number of coronavirus cases officially reported globally stands at 246.7 million since it was first detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019. 
Last Thursday, the World Health Organization (WHO) warned global cases and deaths are increasing for the first time in two months. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said this was driven by ongoing increases in Europe.
"It's another reminder that the Covid-19 pandemic is far from over," Tedros said Thursday, noting that the increases in Europe outweigh decreases elsewhere.
"The pandemic persists in large part because inequitable access to tools persists," he said, adding that 80 times more tests and 30 times more vaccines have been administered in high-income countries than low-income countries. 
From Wuhan to the world 
It's a grim milestone almost two years after Chinese authorities reported the first coronavirus death on January 11, 2020. A 61-year-old man, exposed to the virus at the Wuhan seafood market, died two days earlier after respiratory failure caused by severe pneumonia. 
The first death outside of China was reported in the Philippines in early February 2020 -- a 44-year-old Chinese man who had flown into the country from Wuhan. 

Different countries' epidemics have followed different trajectories. The United States has been the worst hit, with the highest number of cases and deaths. About 46 million cases have been reported in the country and more than 745,800 patients have died, according to JHU.
That surpasses the estimated US death toll from the 1918 flu pandemic, the deadliest pandemic of the 20th century.
Russia is enduring its worst-ever phase of the pandemic. Just last week it reported its highest number of daily cases and deaths since the start of the pandemic, with 40,096 cases and 1,159 deaths on October 28. 
The highly-transmissible Delta variant also drove up rates of cases, hospitalizations and deaths worldwide as it became the dominant Covid strain, overwhelming many countries and places that had got an earlier handle on the pandemic. 
Vaccine gap 
Covid vaccines have saved many lives, but there remains a wide gap in vaccine access, especially to poorer nations. Out of 7 billion doses administered worldwide, only 3.6% have been in low-income countries. 

Tedros said if the vaccine doses administered globally so far had been distributed equitably, "we would have reached our 40% target in every country by now."
"As it is, health workers and vulnerable people in low and middle-income countries remain unprotected, oxygen isn't getting to those who need it, and a lack of testing is leaving many countries blind to how the virus is circulating, and the world blind to emerging variants," he said during a news briefing last week. 
There is also significant vaccine hesitancy in many countries, particularly in the US. 
"It's the unvaccinated that is driving this current surge that is resulting in many hospitalizations, the need for intensive care units and the record number of deaths we're seeing," Dr. Henry Bernstein, former member of the CDC advisory committee on immunization practices, told CNN in September.
Reopening the globe 
Vaccines have allowed many countries to gradually open up, with most of the world now easing restrictions and opening borders to live with the virus. 
Australia partially opened its international borders for the first time in 20 months on Monday. South Korea from Monday will also begin to live with the virus despite thousands of new confirmed cases every week. 
However, China, the country where Covid-19 was first detected nearly two years ago, remains committed to a stringent zero-Covid strategy, despite fully vaccinating more than 75% of its population. 
CNN's Naomi Thomas contributed reporting.
 (CNN)Melanie McTighe and her 92-year-old father live in the same city, but they haven't been able to see each other for almost four months.
That changed on Monday as Sydney, Australia's largest city and the capital of New South Wales, emerges from a strict lockdown imposed in June to contain a Delta outbreak.
McTighe said she's "excited" to start her life again and see her loved ones, but she's worried about what having Covid-19 in the community might mean for the city of 5.3 million people. 
"I think until everyone has a better understanding of this thing and how it keeps changing, we have to be concerned," she said.
For more than 18 months, Australia has shut itself off from the world, closing borders and imposing strict lockdowns to stamp out Covid-19 outbreaks in an attempt to eliminate the virus.
Now, Australia is emerging from its so-called "cave" and trying to live with it.
From Monday, fully vaccinated Sydneysiders, who make up more than 70% of the city's adults, can return to restaurants, bars and gyms -- and many like McTighe are now able to reunite with loved ones in aged care after months apart.
But all that hard-earned freedom will come at a cost -- national modeling suggests Sydney will see thousands of new infections and inevitable deaths.
Questions remain about how the hospital system will cope with any surge of new cases, the impact on vulnerable people and how quickly Sydney can adapt to living with Covid.
What happens next will be critical for both the city and Australia. But other zero-Covid countries in the Asia-Pacific region will also be watching closely to see if Sydney can succeed in keeping case numbers and deaths low enough to avoid overwhelming hospitals, while still allowing business to resume and people to get on with their lives.

The end of zero Covid
For the first year of the pandemic, Australia was one of the few major nations to successfully control Covid-19, through strict border restrictions, mandatory quarantine and temporary lockdowns.
But in June a Delta outbreak in Sydney quickly spread to the neighboring state of Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory (ACT). 
Delays to Australia's vaccination rollout, partly due to low supplies, left the population vulnerable -- forcing authorities to impose local lockdowns.
"I was always of the belief that we could have eliminated the non-Delta Covid ... but I concede lockdowns with Delta are often going to be an unwinnable contest," said Mary-Louise McLaws, professor of infectious disease epidemiology at University of New South Wales (UNSW).
As case numbers rose, it became clear that keeping people inside was unsustainable -- for economic and health reasons -- and Australian authorities came up with a plan to vaccinate the country out of the pandemic. 
With early supply issues resolved, the vaccination program went into overdrive. 
Last week, NSW became the first state to reach the initial 70% double vaccination target. Other states are expected to reach that number in the coming weeks, and by the end of the year the entire country is expected to open up.
But experts warn it's not without potential dangers -- and some people are bearing more of the risk than others.
Reopening Australia 
Australia's reopening plan is built around total adult vaccination rates in each state, but inoculation statistics are not evenly spread.
In some suburban areas of Sydney, full vaccination rates are as low as 30%, according to government figures. 
The state's Indigenous population is also trailing statewide numbers. For example, as of October 6, fewer than half of Indigenous people aged 15 or over on the NSW Central Coast had received both vaccine doses. That's a problem because Indigenous people generally suffer more chronic health issues than non-Indigenous people, putting them at greater risk of Covid complications. 
And young people are also of concern. In NSW, only 58% of people age 16 to 29 have been fully vaccinated -- the lowest of any age group besides 12 to 15-year-olds, who were only recently given access to vaccines.  

McLaws from UNSW said young people are likely to be among the first to take advantage of the freedoms afforded by reopening, so ensuring they are fully vaccinated is especially important. 
She compared it to patches of dry kindling which, if ignored, could eventually spark a bushfire. "Young people, they start the fire, and then those groups that are at risk ... are the vulnerable and the Indigenous population and just generally regional areas outside the big cities," she said. 
Australia's strict border controls and quarantine measures allowed the country to avoid the chaos experienced in other countries in 2020, when Covid cases spilled over from hospitals into temporary medical units.
However, despite 18 months of preparation, health groups have warned the NSW hospital system may not be able to cope with a surge of new infections.
Last month the NSW Nurses and Midwives Association urged the state government to boost staffing levels, citing research showing the system was under pressure even before the latest Covid outbreak.
And on Thursday, after NSW's new premier announced a speedier reopening plan, Omar Khorshid, head of the Australian Medical Association, urged authorities not be "reckless". 
"The ultimate outcomes of opening too fast or too early will be avoidable deaths and the reintroduction of lockdowns and other restrictions -- things no-one in NSW wants to see," he said in a statement.
"Sydney must take this opportunity to show the rest of the country how to live with COVID whilst protecting health and health care."
Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the country's states have had 18 months to prepare for higher Covid cases -- and the "planning is well in place."
He also urged Australians to play a role in taking pressure off the system.
"Where there's no cases, or whether there's 500 cases, or indeed 1,500 cases a day. The best thing you can do to support nurses and all those working in hospitals is to get vaccinated," he said. 
'Setting a 'good example'
Australia is starting its transition from zero Covid to living with the virus through a high vaccination rate -- but it isn't the first country in the region to do so. 
In June, the Singaporean government announced it was going to focus on limiting severe Covid-19 cases and lowering hospitalizations rather than infection rates. Singapore has one of the world's highest vaccination rates -- 83% of its total population is fully inoculated.
But after it began to relax restrictions, Singapore saw Covid-19 cases soar to their highest numbers since the start of the pandemic. In early October, the country reimposed some restrictions to curb rising infections and take pressure off the health system. 
Last week, the number of people allowed to gather dropped from five to two, work-from-home became the standard, and classes were suspended or moved online for students aged 12 and under.
Australia is also expecting case numbers to rise -- that's inevitable as people start mixing, even while following other public health advice, including wearing masks.

National modeling from the Doherty Institute predicts that with "partial public health measures" and a 70% double vaccination rate, numbers could rise to 385,000 cases and 1,457 deaths over six months -- more than Australia's total toll over the entire pandemic. Greater vigilance could see those numbers drop, it added.
Ahead of the reopening, Australia's leaders have been careful to prepare their citizens for more deaths, casting it as the cost of getting back to normal life.
But like Singapore, Australia has not ruled out reintroducing tighter restrictions if cases rise too quickly.
Apart from Singapore and Australia, New Zealand, Thailand and Vietnam have all spoken about abandoning an elimination strategy. In some of those places, that has already prompted concern -- in New Zealand, commentators have raised fears the move could spell disaster for the country's most vulnerable.  
Experts said countries around the region will be looking to Sydney to see how successfully it moves to reopen -- and to learn from its mistakes.
And not only other countries -- Morrison is keen to move ahead quickly with a nationwide reopening, and Australia's other states and territories will have a close eye on NSW.
Victoria, Australia's second largest state, will likely be the next to reopen later in October.
Paul Griffin, director of Infectious Diseases at Mater Health Services, said other governments would be particularly interested in how Sydney's health system holds up after reopening.
"I don't think case numbers will be the key metric," he said. "I think it will be markers of significant disease, and intensive care admission and, of course, the death rate."
If hospitals get overwhelmed by infections, and can't perform normal services safely, that would be a "red flag," he said.
McTighe, the Sydney resident, said she still believes the original lockdown was necessary and doesn't expect the reopening to necessarily be smooth -- there might be a rise in cases and a reintroduction of restrictions, she said.
But for now, she said she is very excited to live "a normal life again." 
"You can see a bit of light at the end of the tunnel."

Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic (CNN)Only a couple of weeks ago, Francis de la Nuez and his wife were elated about expecting a baby girl. But Covid-19 put a tragic end to their hopes, cutting short a 34-week pregnancy.  
Walking outside the Dr. Marcelino Vlez Santana Regional Hospital in Santo Domingo, the Dominican Republic's capital, de la Nuez told CNN he's still in shock.
"My wife contracted Covid-19 10 days ago. She had a high fever. She also had very severe muscle pains which caused her to have contractions. Our baby girl died. When we went to get a sonogram, it was already too late," he said. 
His wife is still recovering in the hospital's intensive care unit. The de la Nuez family is one of many dealing with yet another wave of infections in this Caribbean nation of nearly 11 million. Last week at the same hospital, 17 of 18 beds in the ICU were occupied and there was only one ventilator left.
Until recently, the Dominican Republican seemed to be heading toward normality. September saw a record number of tourists visit the Caribbean nation, and more than 2 million students in the public education system returned to in-person classes for the first time in more than a year. On October 11, the country's nationwide state of emergency was lifted. 
But was it too soon? 
Just as students returned to classes, Covid-19 cases began trending upward, data published by Johns Hopkins University (JHU) shows. 
Less than two weeks later, Carissa Etienne, director of the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO), announced that while the Covid-19 trend in most of Latin America and the Caribbean was downward, new cases had increased by over 40% in the Dominican Republic.
New variants, schools and vaccination rates
Dr. Jorge Marte, director of the Center for Diagnosis, Advanced Medicine and Telemedicine (CEDIMAT), one of the main hospitals in Santo Domingo, points to the spread of new variants and the reopening of schools as significant factors in the country's surging case numbers. 
The country's public health ministry quickly sought to wrest control of the new spread, announcing on Oct 8 new precautionary measures requiring people aged 13 and older to show a vaccination card or negative PCR test in order to access public places, like schools and workplaces. Proof of vaccination would also be required for entrance to restaurants, gyms and public transportation.
But those measures could only go so far, according to Marte, who says that despite the introduction of booster shots, the country's overall vaccination campaign has been insufficient. 
Less than 50% of the total Dominican population has been fully vaccinated, according to JHU. The government had aimed to vaccinate 70% of the country's eligible population with at least two doses.
 
 "We have yet to vaccinate the population target we set for ourselves," says Marte, who also serves as a presidential health adviser. 
Dominican Health Minister Daniel Rivera has described the virus' resurgence as a crisis of the unvaccinated, who are taxing health resources and occupying ICU beds. 
"Out of the last 31 people who died, 29 of them were not vaccinated at all. And the only person who was vaccinated and died was a 68-year-old patient," Rivera said during a press conference last week. 
Dr. Indira Jimnez, who's in charge of the Covid-19 unit at Francisco Moscoso Cuello Hospital, told CNN that 90% of the infected patients arriving at her hospital were unvaccinated or had only received one shot.
"There has been a very noticeable increase in the number of infected patients. Those who are being admitted in the intensive care unit are coming to us already in critical condition," Jimnez said. On Friday, there were no available ventilators in her hospital at all. 
Death rates are still far lower than in the earlier days of the pandemic, however. Eighteen people died of Covid-19 the last week, compared to 165 deaths in the first week of February -- the peak for Covid-19 fatalities in the Dominican Republic so far. 
 
Recently Marte says he has also noticed a new factor in Covid-19 hospitalizations. 
He says Sinovac alone, one of the vaccines the Dominican Republic relied upon heavily, did not deliver the results health authorities were expecting, though conclusive studies are still pending. The country has introduced booster shots to amp up protection, but those have not yet become widespread, with only 1.2 million recipients so far.
In fact, the Dominican Republic was the first country in Latin America to approve booster shots, starting with its health care workers in July. It was not the only country in the region to start supplementing its Sinovac campaign however.
After yet another devastating wave of infections, Chilean President Sebastin Piera announced in early August that those who had received two doses of the Sinovac vaccine were eligible to get a booster shot from either AstraZeneca or Pfizer, starting with the elderly. And Uruguay's health ministry made a similar decision, opting to give Pfizer booster shots to residents who had received two doses of the Chinese-made vaccine.
 
"What I can tell you with very objective data is that there's an enormous difference between those who have received two Sinovac doses versus the ones who have added a Pfizer booster shot to those two Sinovac shots," Marte said. 
"In the whole country there's not a single individual who has received a Pfizer booster shot and ended up hospitalized."  
Marte also said that out of 17,000 Covid-19 patients seen at his hospital, only five contracted the virus after getting the Pfizer booster shot. One was an 86-year-old patient, and another was a 78-year-old suffering from diabetes and cancer. None of those five ultimately required admittance, he said.
Reporting contributed by Jessica Hasbun in Santo Domingo, Rafael Romo in Mexico City, and Valentina DiDonato in Atlanta.
 (Singapore)Singapore is looking into an "unusual surge" of 5,324 new infections of Covid-19, the city-state's health ministry said, its highest such figure since the beginning of the pandemic, as beds in intensive care units fill up.
Ten new deaths on Wednesday carried the toll to 349, after 3,277 infections the previous day, while the ICU utilization rate is nearing 80%, despite a population that is 84% fully vaccinated, with 14% receiving booster doses.
"The infection numbers are unusually high today, mostly due to many Covid-positive cases detected by the testing laboratories within a few hours in the afternoon," the health ministry said in a statement.
"The Ministry of Health is looking into this unusual surge in cases within a relatively short window, and closely monitoring the trends for the next few days," it added in Wednesday's statement.
While nearly 98.7% of the past month's 90,203 cases had no symptoms, or only mild ones, about 0.2% of those had died, and 0.1% each were being monitored closely in intensive care units (ICU) or were critically ill and intubated there.
About 72 ICU beds were vacant by Wednesday, at an overall ICU use rate of 79.8%, with 142 coronavirus sufferers accounting for about half of occupied beds.
The ministry said it was adding more ICU beds. The Asian city-state, which has set aside 200 ICU beds to be used by Covid-19 patients, can add 100 more at short notice.
Last week, it extended some social curbs for about a month, to rein in the spread of Covid-19 and ease pressure on health care facilities.

 (CNN)The US is making headway in its battle against Covid-19 -- with infection and hospitalization rates on the decline after a surge fueled by the highly transmissible Delta variant.
But, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky said Thursday, human behavior will ultimately determine how and when the pandemic ends.
"We have a lot of the science right now. We have vaccines, and what we can't really predict is human behavior. Human behavior in this pandemic hasn't served us very well," she said.  
There are still pockets of unvaccinated people in the US who are not protected. "The virus isn't stupid. It's going to go there," Walensky added.
The CDC director said the pandemic has been divisive, and the nation's ability to end it depends on the ability for people to take collective action.
"We are battling with one another and not battling with the common foe, which is the virus itself," she said.

Booster shots have outpaced the US rate of new vaccinations
The number of Americans getting booster shots are surpassing those who are initiating vaccination, and experts warn more is needed to continue the progress. The country has averaged more than 101,200 new cases a day over the last week -- down 41% from a peak in a Delta-driven wave reached in mid-September, according to Johns Hopkins University data. 
The number of Covid-19 patients in US hospitals -- 68,760 as of Thursday -- is down 34% from a Delta-wave peak reached in September, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. 
Just over 56% of the total US population is fully vaccinated, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
"This wave is receding, but unless we get the nearly 70 million unvaccinated Americans vaccinated, we are at risk for future waves," Dr. Tom Frieden, former head of the CDC, told CNN on Wednesday. 
An average of 384,963 booster vaccine doses are being given daily, while roughly 281,303 people are getting their first dose every day and about 292,927 people are becoming fully vaccinated each day, according to Wednesday's CDC data. 
In New Mexico, more people are getting vaccinated, but it's not happening quickly enough to bring down Covid-19 cases, according to Dr. David Scrase, the acting health director at the state's health department. 
"Our Delta curve went up pretty steeply, and it's not coming down," Scrase said. "In fact, it's plateaued."
Scrase explained he's concerned health care workers are getting exhausted. 
"In the northwest (region of New Mexico) ... the hospitals are really, really, really overwhelmed,"  Scrase said. "I've just talked to too many people that say as soon as this curve comes down, they're stepping back from their whole health care career. They just can't do it anymore."
And with winter fast approaching, experts are reinforcing the importance of getting vaccinated against both Covid-19 and the flu because they pose a double threat to an already strained health care system.

San Francisco to ease indoor mask mandate
San Francisco is planning to relax its mask mandates next week. Mask requirements for many indoor gatherings of less than 100 people will be lifted, including at offices and gyms, for those fully vaccinated. And people will no longer be required to mask up at smaller college and religious gatherings as long as they meet the requirement.
"I'm excited that we're once again at a place where we can begin easing the mask requirements," Mayor London Breed said in a written statement. Breed added that it's the direct result of the fact that the city has one of the highest vaccination rates in the country. 
"Our cases have fallen, and our residents have done their part to keep themselves and those around them safe," Breed wrote.
The city said when gathering unmasked, indoor venues must be properly ventilated. The Department of Public Health said the easing of masking rules could be suspended if hospitalization rates start to go up again.
Pfizer-BioNTech seeking FDA authorization for vaccine for children ages 5 to 11
Meanwhile, Pfizer and BioNTech said Thursday they are seeking US Food and Drug Administration emergency use authorization for their Covid-19 vaccine for children ages 5 to 11.
If authorized, this would be the first Covid-19 vaccine for younger children. 
White House Covid-19 response coordinator Jeff Zients called the news a "really important next step" and an "important development" during an interview on CNN's New Day. 
An FDA vaccine advisory panel is scheduled to discuss Pfizer's request on October 26. If the FDA authorizes it, a panel of CDC vaccine advisers will meet to consider whether to recommend its use.
Data from the Kaiser Family Foundation's Vaccine Monitor in September shows that 34 percent of parents say they would vaccinate their child as a soon as a vaccine for that age group becomes available. Some 32 percent want to wait and see how it goes and 24 percent say they will not vaccinate their children at all. 
Nearly half of parents of 12- to 17-year-olds said their child has received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to KKF data in September.
Meanwhile, case numbers for a rare Covid-19 complication in children are seeing a 12% increase, according to the CDC. There have been 5,217 reported cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) through October 4. At least 46 children have died from the illness, a more than 12% increase in deaths from the month before and one of the largest increases this year.
Researchers: Covid-19 killed parents or grandparents of 140,000 US children, and minorities were hit harder
More than 140,000 US children have lost a parent or grandparent who took care of them to Covid-19, researchers at the CDC and elsewhere reported Thursday. That's about 1 in 500 US children, the researchers said.
And children from racial and ethnic minorities were far more likely to lose such a caregiver, the CDC-led team found.
National Center for Health Statistics data through June showed that children of racial and ethnic minorities accounted for 65% of those who lost a primary caregiver, while White children accounted for 35%. That's even though minorities account for just 39% of the US population.
"During 15 months of the Covid-19 pandemic, 120,630 children in the US experienced death of a primary caregiver, including parents and grandparents providing basic needs, because of Covid-19-associated death. Additionally, 22,007 children experienced death of secondary caregivers, for a total of 142,637 children losing primary or secondary caregivers," the researchers wrote in the journal Pediatrics.
Worst hit were kids in Southern border states. Hispanic children in these states accounted for anywhere between 50% and 67% of affected children.
In Southeastern states, up to 57% of affected children are Black, and in states with tribal territories, American Indian/Alaska Native children accounted for up to 55% of kids who lost a parent or other primary caregiver to Covid-19, according to the researchers.
"Beyond parents, grandparents are increasingly indispensable, often providing basic needs. In the US from 2011 to 2019, 10% of children lived with a grandparent and in 2019, 4.5 million children lived with a grandparent providing their housing. Black, Hispanic, and Asian children are twice as likely as White children to live with a grandparent," they wrote.
"Loss of parents is associated with mental health problems, shorter schooling, lower self-esteem, sexual risk behaviors, and risks of suicide, violence, sexual abuse, and exploitation," they added. "Yet, there is hope. Safe and effective vaccines can stop Covid-19-associated orphanhood and death of caregivers from negatively impacting children and families."
CNN's Virginia Langmaid, Maggie Fox, Andy Rose, Jason Hanna, Lauren Mascarenhas and Michael Nedelman contributed to this report.
 (CNN)The Los Angeles City Council voted Wednesday to require patrons at indoor spaces such as restaurants, gyms and movie theaters to show proof of full Covid-19 vaccination -- starting November 4. 
The ordinance will also apply to personal care establishments such as spas and hair salons, as well as city buildings. 
And while the measure doesn't go into effect until next month, businesses must display advisory notice of the requirement by October 21. Individuals with medical or religious exemptions must provide a form declaring that. People who do not meet those requirements can use the outdoor spaces of a business and will be allowed in the covered spaces to use restrooms or pick up takeout orders. 
The city will require patrons at large outdoor events with at least 5,000 attendees to show proof of vaccination or a negative Covid-19 test. 
The 11-2 council vote comes as a countywide proof of vaccination requirement is about to go into effect. Starting Thursday, proof of at least one vaccine dose will be required to both enter or work at indoor parts of bars, nightclubs, breweries and lounges across Los Angeles County.
And on November 4, bars and similar venues throughout the county will be required to verify full vaccination of their guests and employees prior to entry in their indoor areas.
The county -- like many other parts across the US -- has been recording a downward trend in new Covid-19 infections, hospitalizations and deaths, but officials warn that the best way to keep numbers from ticking up again is getting vaccinated. 
"As Halloween, Thanksgiving and the December holiday season are fast approaching, we are hopeful, that with continued declines in cases, we can plan for gatherings, parties, and perhaps travel to celebrate with family and friends," Barbara Ferrer, public health director for Los Angeles County, said in a statement. "While we continue to live with the uncertainties posed by a mutating virus, one thing is certain: whatever your plans, they'll be safer if you and your loved ones are vaccinated."
According to data published Wednesday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more Americans are now getting booster shots in the US than are getting vaccinated for the first time or becoming fully vaccinated. 
Roughly 56.1% of the US population is fully vaccinated, while roughly 281,303 people are initiating their vaccinations every day. About 384,963 booster shots are being administered daily, according to the CDC data.
8 states have less than 15% of ICU beds available
In other parts of the country, the fight against the virus is still stretching hospital resources. 
Texas, Idaho, Alabama, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kentucky, Arkansas and North Carolina have 15% or less of their ICU capacity available to patients, according to data from the Department of Health and Human Services.
Dwindling capacity from Covid-19 has led to many hospitals strained for resources and staffing, often leaving them unable to provide the standard of care they would like, according to health care professionals. 
On average over the last week, Covid-19 hospitalizations have declined by more than 1,400 a day, according to data from the CDC.
Whether the change is temporary or the beginning of the end is still not clear, health experts say, and now is not the time to get complacent.
Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, has said the vast majority of the US will need to be vaccinated to control the spread, but according to data from the CDC only 56% of the population is fully vaccinated.
"I am worried that we still have some tough days ahead," said Dr. Ashish Jha, the dean at Brown University School of Public Health. "Even though we're doing reasonably well on vaccines, we've got to do much better because the Delta variant is very good at finding people who are unvaccinated and infecting them."
And with children under 12 still not yet eligible to be vaccinated, many experts are concerned about how kids will fare.
An average of 225 kids were admitted to the hospital with Covid-19 every day for the last seven days, according to data from the CDC. The number is down from an average of 263 the previous week.
While pediatric infections have been decreasing, they remain high. Children under 18 make up 22% of the US population but account for 27% of all cases nationwide, according to data published Monday by the American Academy of Pediatrics.
And although those cases are less likely to be severe or result in death, children can end up with long-term symptoms.
Child deaths are an 'embarrassment'
Child deaths from a preventable illness such as Covid-19 are the motivation for authorizing a vaccine in children, the US Food and Drug Administration's top vaccine official said Tuesday.
"In this latest wave of Covid-19, particularly down South, there have been thousands of children hospitalized. And, frankly, it's an embarrassment in a developed country to have even 100 children, like we've had, die of infectious disease that's preventable," Dr. Peter Marks, director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, said in a town hall hosted by the Covid-19 Vaccine Education and Equity Project.
"We didn't have a vaccine to give them, but I would hate to deprive children of their lives because we don't decide to vaccinate them, even against the relatively low-risk thing," Marks said.  
According to the CDC, 645 children have died from Covid-19 in the US.
"No parent should have to lose their child to a vaccine-preventable illness if we have a vaccine that can be deployed that is safe and effective. And we will only allow something to be authorized that we find to be safe and effective," Marks said.
Marks said he didn't know whether authorization of a vaccine in children ages 5 to 11 would come following a meeting of the FDA's Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee scheduled for October 14 to 15, but he said the FDA would work quickly to go through needed data when it becomes available. 
"Many of us of the people who work at FDA have young children or they have grandchildren. And this is clearly one of the most important issues to get done so we're not going to be wasting any time," he said.  
Johnson & Johnson asks for booster dose authorization
As officials prepare to review vaccines for young children, they are also considering authorizing a booster dose to increase protection for people who got the one-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine.
J&J said Tuesday it has asked the FDA to authorize booster shots for its vaccine. According to the CDC, about 15 million people in the US have received a J&J shot.
The company said it has made the request, but is leaving the decisions around who should get the boosters and when up to the FDA and CDC.
The FDA's Vaccine and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee is scheduled to meet October 14 and 15 to consider requests from Moderna and Johnson & Johnson to add booster doses for their Covid-19 vaccines. 
Last month, the company released some data from three different studies that showed boosting its vaccine at two months or at six months increased immune protection.
"We announced that the six month data are a very strong, very strong boost, like an amazingly strong boost," said Dr. Mathai Mammen, head of global research and development for J&J's vaccine arm, Janssen. "And that two months is a good boost, and the two-month good boost was associated with 94% vaccine efficacy, right across the board, all ages."
The Pfizer vaccine has already been authorized by the FDA for use as a booster for people 65 and older, people at high risk of severe disease and people whose jobs put them at risk of infection.
CNN's Virginia Langmaid, Maggie Fox, Christina Maxouris, Jen Christensen, Holly Yan, Susannah Cullinane, Ben Tinker, Jacqueline Howard, Mallory Simon and Theresa Waldrop contributed to this report.
 (CNN)Protesters returned to the streets in major cities across Brazil on Saturday, calling for the impeachment of President Jair Bolsonaro amid worsening economic conditions, rising unemployment, and hunger in the Covid-wracked country.
Thousands of people gathered in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro -- Brazil's most populous cities -- chanting, "Out Bolsonaro, out Bolsonaro" and carrying signs saying: "Bolsonaro Must Leave, Impeachment Now!" according to CNN affiliate CNN Brasil.
In addition to calling out his mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic, demonstrators also protested economic woes of ordinary Brazilians from surging inflation and high fuel prices.
In the capital, Brasilia, demonstrators marched to the front of the National Congress, carrying signs protesting the price of gas and food. 
Basic food items and gasoline prices are on the rise in Brazil and more than 14 million people are unemployed, according to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE).

Meanwhile, Brazil continues to be hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic. Nearly 600,000 Brazilians have died from the virus -- the highest death toll in the world after the United States. 
Authorities have not released official figures but organizers said protests took place in more than 200 cities across the country, according to Reuters. Protesters also gathered in northern state capitals such as Recife and Belm, in peaceful demonstrations with no incidents reported. 

The protests against Bolsonaro marked an attempt by the opposition to show unity, bringing together center-left parties, trade unions and social movements. It was in response to a rally of Bolsonaro supporters held last month.
Center-left politician and third runner-up in the last presidential elections, Ciro Gomes, participated in the Rio de Janeiro rally, as well as opposition leader, congressman Alessandro Molon. In Sao Paulo, second runner-up in 2018, Fernando Haddad, from former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva's Workers Party attended.
In the latest poll from Brazil's largest opinion polling group, the Datafolha Institute, Bolsonaro's approval rating continues to decline. More than half of Brazilians -- 53% -- now consider Bolsonaro's presidency to be bad or awful, the lowest approval rating for the President since he took office in 2019, according to the September 16 Datafolha poll.
Voting intentions for next year's presidential election show that former president Lula could win in the first round, according to Datafolha.
Additional reporting by Reuters.
 (CNN)A member of a scientific coalition advising Puerto Rico's government on the coronavirus pandemic recently joked about the island's high Covid-19 vaccination rate, attributing it to the proliferation of drug store chains on the island.
"There is a Walgreens on like every corner," said Rafael Irizzary, a professor of biostatistics at Harvard's T.H. Chan School of Public Health. "Everywhere you go, they have everything you need. Rum. Coffee. You get your fireworks and then you go get a vaccine."
Irizzary was only half joking about vaccination rates and Puerto Rico's more than 100 Walgreens outlets. 
The Caribbean island -- in recent years pummeled by deadly hurricanes, rocked by earthquakes, beset by political unrest and saddled by debt -- has quietly managed to outpace even New England states with the highest vaccination rates in the country. 
 
"All those emergencies and collective trauma primed Puerto Rico and the leadership, the scientific community, the healthcare community," said Daniel Coln Ramos, a Yale medical school professor who presides over the coronavirus coalition advising the government. "There was a sense of urgency. A lot of people that I have worked with, their attitude was like: Not on my watch. Not again."
Puerto Rico has fully vaccinated just over 73% of its 3.3 million residents, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. That's more than 2.3 million people.  
The island has the highest rate of total vaccine doses administered, with 154,563 per 100,000 people. It had administered 4.9 million doses as of Friday, according to the CDC. 
On the mainland, Vermont leads with 70.8% of the population fully vaccinated, followed by Connecticut at 70.2% and Maine at 70%, according to the CDC, which added that just over 57% of the total US population was fully vaccinated as of Friday.
Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, wrote on Twitter that Puerto Rico's "fabulous" vaccination efforts have "gotten way too little attention."  

"Best I can tell, they've done this largely by not tying vaccines to politics," Jha wrote last weekend. "They pay less attention to mainland politics. All their political parties actively support vaccinations. And generally, political [identity] & vaccinations are not intermixed."
Not only is Puerto Rico poor compared to much of the mainland, Jha noted, but it also has a larger population than 21 states. It's about "5 times bigger" than Vermont, he wrote. The poverty rate on the island was about 43% in 2018, compared to 13% at the national level and more than double Mississippi's 19.7%, according to the US Census Bureau. 
'A lot of saved lives'

"It represents a lot of saved lives," Coln Ramos said of the island's  vaccination success. "It's really about the fact there are hundreds of people -- if not thousands -- right now walking around somewhere in Puerto Rico and they wouldn't be there if it wasn't for these efforts."
Dr. Iris Cardona, chief medical officer of the island's health department, attributed the success to teamwork by the scientific community, the private sector, government agencies, medical associations and schools, the National Guard and religious and municipal leadership. 

"It's a collaborative exercise," said Cardona, who is overseeing the vaccination program. "Given the difficulties that the whole world knows Puerto Rico has endured in the last five years -- hurricanes, earthquakes, political and fiscal crises -- the Puerto Rican people at all levels have cooperated." 
That cooperation has included both vaccine education programs and vaccination events. 
Throughout the pandemic, the island's government has implemented lockdowns and other restrictions, issued mask and vaccination mandates and put in place stringent indoor dining and social distancing rules, according to members of the Covid-19 coalition. 
"In the cultural context of Puerto Rico, the social distancing is not something that comes easy to us as Puerto Ricans -- we want to be close," Coln Ramos said. "But people have managed to navigate that very well." 
'Coherent message ... based on scientific evidence'

While some states have fiercely resisted Covid-19 restrictions and vaccine mandates, the US territory has not. 
"Right now the legislature is controlled by one party, the governorship is controlled by another party, but in spite of those differences... wanting to save lives during the pandemic was never politicized in Puerto Rico," Coln Ramos said. 
"Difficult decisions were made and criticized," he said. "But, for example, mask mandates were never really politicized. The importance of vaccination was never made into a political issue. It helped to send a coherent message that was based on scientific evidence."

Puerto Rico has had at least 151,245 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 3,219 reported deaths during the pandemic, according to the island's health department. Connecticut, which is about the same size as Puerto Rico, has had more than 400,000 Covid-19 cases and 8,721 deaths.
Dr. Vctor Ramos, a pediatrician and president of the island's Association of Physicians and Surgeons, said mass vaccination centers were set up by the National Guard in shopping malls throughout the island.
There were door-to-door vaccination events in remote rural towns, where shots were administered in homes, particularly to the elderly and bedridden. 
"We will go wherever we need to go to vaccinate people," Ramos said. "After (Hurricane) Maria many people were holed up in remote towns and we had to get out there to help them. We're doing the same now with the vaccine." 

 (CNN)Hundreds of New York City firefighters called in sick Monday morning as the Covid-19 vaccine mandate for municipal employees went into effect, bringing the total number of sickouts in the fire department to 2,300, FDNY Commissioner Daniel A. Nigro said at a news conference.
Normally, 800-1,000 fire department employees call in sick on any given day, FDNY spokesperson Jim Long told CNN.
Nigro said many people calling in sick were protesting the vaccine mandate.
"If you're sick, you're sick, it's a dangerous job. I get it.  If you're not sick, I want to see you back at work," Nigro said.
"Once the members come to their senses and stop using medical leave improperly, they can help out not only the citizens of the city but their brothers and sisters who are staffing these units," Nigro said.
With many public safety unions pushing back against the mandate, city officials had worried about employee shortages in the fire and police departments.
Speaking at a news conference, Mayor Bill de Blasio said approximately 9,000 city employees are on leave without pay as of Monday, out of a workforce of 378,000, for not complying with vaccine mandate regulations. He said public safety has not been compromised.
De Blasio said people who are inappropriately using sick leave in the fire department or any other department are facing very serious consequences. 
"When a city employee fakes it and puts other people's lives in danger, that's a serious thing and there are going to be consequences for that," he said.
There are 18 fire units out of service out of 350 total, Nigro said, adding no firehouses are closed. NYPD Commissioner Dermot Shea said 34 of 35,000 uniformed officers were on no-pay status on Monday, along with 40 of 17,000 civilian employees.
Union official says mandate 'causing an exodus'
FDNY-Firefighters Association President Andrew Ansbro said he doesn't know how many firefighters would not be permitted to work Monday morning due to still being unvaccinated, stating the FDNY does not share those numbers with them.
Ansbro said the vaccine mandate is "causing an exodus" of firefighters from the department and the remaining firefighters are "going to have to work to the breaking point" to make up for the staffing shortages. Ansbro maintained their union is "not anti-vaccine, we are anti-mandate."
Ansbro said many firefighters who decided to get vaccinated over the weekend are taking sick days because of reactions to the Covid-19 vaccine.
"Everyone knows the vaccine causes mild flu-like symptoms regularly, so these members are not coming to work feeling those symptoms," Ansbro said.
Mayor says no service interruptions because of vaccine mandate
De Blasio said Monday the start of a Covid-19 vaccine mandate has not resulted in service interruptions for the city police, fire and sanitation departments, though a high number of city employees called in sick, citing health reasons. 
De Blasio said Monday 91% of all municipal employees have been vaccinated with at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, including large percentages of first responders.
The NYPD has an 84% vaccination rate, up from 70% when the citywide vaccine mandate was announced October 20, de Blasio said.
NYPD Commissioner Dermot Shea said the department's vaccination percentage was 85%, with the vast majority of the remaining unvaccinated requesting accommodations for religious or medical reasons. 
"Members of the police department responded to this (vaccine mandate), they came to work as they always do and there is literally no effect on service at this point," Shea said Monday.
Shea earlier said the police department was also making plans for shortages, which included asking vaccinated NYPD officers to work overtime or double shifts. 
The FDNY has a 77% vaccination rate, up from 58% when the mandate was announced. The city Department of Sanitation vaccination rate rose to 83% from 62%. Emergency Management Services went to 88% from 61%.
De Blasio said the mandate spurred people to get vaccinated. 
He said 22,472 city employees have been vaccinated since October 20 and 3,564 people received at least one vaccine dose over the weekend after the 5:00 p.m. Friday deadline passed.
From Saturday night to Sunday night, at least 1,400 NYC employees received at least one dose, based on the data provided Sunday by the mayor's office.
Members of the fire and police departments and other city workers had until 5 p.m. Friday to show proof they have received at least one vaccine dose or be placed on unpaid leave. The same mandate has been in effect already for city health care and education workers.
With a number of public safety employees pushing back against the mandate, officials had scrambled to deal with potential staff shortages. 
One source told CNN last week the Fire Department of New York was preparing for a 20% reduction in service starting Monday. The source who spoke to CNN said as many as a fifth of the city's fire companies could be closed as a result of unvaccinated staff shortages and added a fifth of the department's ambulances could go out of service. 
It is a challenge familiar to other cities that have worked to enact vaccine mandates amid ongoing resistance from law enforcement officers and their unions. 
Firefighters union official says 'all we are asking for is extra time'
FDNY-Fire Officers Association President Jim McCarthy said Monday morning "all we are asking for is extra time" regarding the city mandate, so their members can have more time to make decisions on whether to get the vaccine, to file any religious or medical exemptions, or potentially decide to retire.
McCarthy said the department's previous policy of testing unvaccinated FDNY members for Covid-19 was working and claimed the Covid-19 positivity rate for the department was less than one half of one percent.
A Staten Island judge denied a request by the city's largest police union Wednesday to block the vaccine mandate. The decision was a "violation of police officers' rights and would lead to fewer officers on the streets," said Patrick Lynch, head of the New York City Police Benevolent Association. 
Officers, firefighters avoid vaccination
To avoid getting vaccinated, thousands of NYPD employees applied for a "reasonable accommodation" before the mandate went into effect, Shea told local station WNYW.
Anyone who goes to work Monday who is not vaccinated and does not have a pending reasonable accommodation request submitted by Wednesday will "be sent home without pay," Shea told the news station.
FDNY members protested the mandate outside De Blasio's official residence Thursday, sporting signs with phrases including "My Body My Choice" and "#Natural Immunity."
Hospitalizations have dropped in NYC
Covid-related hospitalizations are dropping sharply in New York City -- and the nation.
Data from NYC Health showed the seven-day average for Covid hospitalizations in the city was 23 on October 26, the last time figures were released, down from 77 on September 26 and 107 on August 26.
The peak was 1670 on April 4, 2020, according to NYC Health.
Nationally, there are 48,609 people hospitalized for Covid-19, according to the US Department of Health and Human Services, the lowest the metric has been since late July.
Ensemble forecasts from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published Wednesday predict new Covid-19 hospitalizations and deaths will decrease over the next four weeks.
The newest hospitalizations forecast predicts there will be 1,600 to 7,400 new confirmed Covid-19 hospital admissions likely reported on November 19, 2021.
CNN's Maya Brown, Laura Studley, Evan Simko-Bednarski, Brynn Gingras, Laura Ly and Ralph Ellis contributed to this report. 
Novak Djokovic will not be able to enter Australia to defend his Australian Open title unless he is fully vaccinated for Covid-19, the country's immigration minister said on Wednesday, putting the Serb's grand slam record bid in doubt.
World number one Djokovic, who is level with Roger Federer and Rafa Nadal on 20 grand slam titles, has declined to reveal his vaccination status, and said he is unsure if he will defend his Australian Open crown.
Clarifying Australia's visa requirements, Minister for Immigration Alex Hawke said foreign players would need to have had two vaccination shots to play the grand slam at Melbourne Park in January.
"You'll need to be double vaccinated to visit Australia. That's a universal application, not just to tennis players. I mean that every visitor to Australia will need to be double vaccinated," Hawke told Australian Broadcasting Corporation radio.
"I don't have a message to Novak. I have a message to everybody that wishes to visit Australia. He'll need to be double vaccinated."
Apart from Serbian Djokovic, who has won nine of his grand slam titles at the Australian Open and the last three in succession at Melbourne Park, the rule could exclude scores of players from the tournament.
More than a third of professional players remain unvaccinated, according to recent media reports.
Both the men's ATP and women's WTA tours have urged players to get vaccinated but some have voiced reservations.
Russian men's US Open champion Daniil Medvedev and German world number four Alex Zverev have expressed skepticism, although their vaccination status remains unknown.
Greek world number three Stefanos Tsitsipas said in August he would only get vaccinated if it became mandatory, though later said he planned to have shots by the end of the year.
READ: Novak Djokovic speaks about new players' association he co-founded
Tennis Australia, which organizes the grand slam, said it was working with authorities on conditions for players, fans and tournament staff.
"Our understanding is that the details around international visitors entering the country are yet to be decided and we hope to have more information soon," the governing body said.
Australia's health minister Greg Hunt said the country's rules were about protecting Australians.
"They apply to everyone without fear or favor. It doesn't matter whether you are number one in the world or you are anything else," he told a media conference on Wednesday.
Australia has shut its international borders to non-citizens and non-permanent residents for 18 months, though there have been some high-profile exceptions.
Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videos
International travel is expected to begin for Australian citizens within weeks, but non-citizens are expected to be shut out until early-2022.
Authorities in Victoria state, which hosts the Australian Open, said they would not make special deals with unvaccinated athletes to allow them to compete even if they secured visas.
Melbourne, Australia's second largest city, has been locked down since August due to an outbreak of the highly infectious Delta variant but will begin to open up on Friday, when 70% of the adult population in Victoria is expected to be fully vaccinated.

 (CNN)Advisers from the US Food and Drug Administration voted unanimously to recommend emergency authorization of a booster dose of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine, and a day later did so again for a booster of Johnson & Johnson's vaccine. 
The group voted Friday to authorize a booster shot of Johnson & Johnson's vaccine for Americans 18 and older at least two months after they get their first shots. Johnson & Johnson said studies showed boosting at two or six months can bring effectiveness up to 94%.
If the FDA follows its advisers' recommendations, more than 90% of people vaccinated with the Johnson & Johnson shot -- nearly 14 million people -- will be eligible for the booster right away.
Anyone who got the single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine "can benefit from a second dose" of it," Dr. Paul Offit, a member of the FDA Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee, told CNN's Jake Tapper on Friday. 
Meanwhile, Moderna's EUA request mirrored the groups authorized to receive a booster dose of Pfizer's mRNA vaccine. Third doses of the Moderna and Pfizer Covid-19 vaccines are already authorized for some immunocompromised people.
Yet some experts are noting that while antibodies may wane over time, the initial two-dose regimen for both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines is still holding up against severe Covid-19 infection. 
Offit told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on Thursday that proper expectations need to be set about what vaccines are supposed to do and how they remain effective.
"We have to define what's the goal of this vaccine. If the goal of this vaccine is protection against serious illness, meaning the kind of illness that causes you to seek medical attention or go to the hospital or the ICU, the current vaccines, as two-dose vaccines, are doing exactly that," he said. "So, you don't really need a booster dose, at least as far as those data are concerned."
The committee recommendation for Moderna's booster is the same as the one granted last month for the Pfizer/BioNTech third dose: it's authorized for people older than 65, and people 18 and older who are at risk of severe disease or who live or work in a situation that puts them at a higher risk for complications or severe disease.
Offit said that although he voted to recommend half-dose booster shots for some people six months after their first two doses of Moderna's vaccine, he doesn't think everyone needs one.
"I do worry about the sort of 18- to 29-year-old because that's the group that has a higher risk of myocarditis -- that's inflammation of the heart muscle," he said. "So, without sort of clear benefit that that third dose is necessary, I think we've created this kind of 'third dose fever' in this country because of the way this has played out."
Dr. Michael Kurilla, director of the Division of Clinical Innovation at the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences at the National Institutes of Health, agreed.
"I don't see the need for a let-it-rip campaign for boosters," Kurilla said.

More than 9 million people have received a booster dose of coronavirus vaccine, according to the latest data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is nearly 5% of those who were already fully vaccinated. 
The number of people getting booster doses is currently outpacing the number of people getting their first doses of vaccine, according to CDC data. More than a million doses were reported administered Wednesday, but just an average of around 230,000 people are starting the vaccination process each day.
President Joe Biden highlighted progress since July when nearly 100 million eligible Americans remained unvaccinated, but said the nation is in a "very critical period" and urged more to be done.
"We're down to 66 million, still unacceptably high number of unvaccinated people," he said Thursday. "Now's not the time to let up."
The FDA will consider the committee's recommendations, and if an EUA is approved, then the CDC will confer about which groups would be eligible. 
Vaccine mandates move forward 
As the discussion on boosters continues, experts consistently point to the greater need to inoculate those unvaccinated to get ahead of the pandemic. And while many Covid-19 vaccine mandate campaigns from the public and private sectors have met with success, some agencies are finding pushback from a vocal subset. 
In Chicago, the police union president said up to half of the city's officers could be placed on unpaid leave starting Friday because of individuals' failure to report their vaccination status as required by the city. The police department said this week that it will be fully staffed going into the weekend. 
Many state employees in Washington are four days away from a deadline for being fully vaccinated against Covid-19, and officials will not extend that deadline further.  
"If people do make the choice to leave public service, we will replace them," Gov. Jay Inslee said Thursday.
More than 90% of state employees have provided proof of vaccination, Inslee said, and about two percent more have been given special accommodations that will allow them to remain unvaccinated due to medical conditions or religious convictions.
In Nevada, rural hospital intensive care units stretched to their limits may face a staffing shortage as a vaccine mandate for health care workers kicks in on November 1.
"We know that there are staff members that will refuse to be vaccinated," Joan Hall, president of Nevada Rural Hospital Partners, said in a briefing Thursday. Vaccination rates for employees at their hospitals range from 60% to 90%, Hall said. 
Meanwhile, a Massachusetts district judge denied a request from the state's correction officers union to issue a preliminary injunction to block a statewide vaccine mandate that requires all executive department employees to be vaccinated by October 17, according to court documents. 
The Massachusetts Correction Officers Federated Union and several other individuals alleged the governor and corrections department commissioner violated the Contracts Clause of the US Constitution and their 14th Amendment Rights by enforcing the mandate. An attorney for the union, McDonald Lamond Canzoneri, said about 40% of members of the union were unvaccinated as of Friday, according to court documents.
But experts have consistently pointed out that areas with higher rates of vaccination are faring better with Covid-19 hospitalizations. 
New York City has an indoor vaccine mandate for many businesses, and Mayor Bill de Blasio said Thursday that 85% of adult residents have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine.
The Covid-19 hospitalization rate in the city's public health system has reached its lowest point since the beginning of the pandemic, according to Dr. Mitchell Katz, CEO of NYC Health + Hospitals.

Antiviral pill application will be reviewed
Vaccines have been proven to be the most effective means of Covid-19 protection, yet the measure is a preventative one. An antiviral pill that may help those newly infected is now slated for review next month.
The FDA's Antimicrobial Drugs Advisory Committee will meet November 30 to discuss Merck and Ridgeback's emergency use authorization application for its experimental Covid-19 antiviral drug molnupiravir, the agency announced Thursday. 
If authorization is eventually granted, the drug -- which comes in capsule form -- would be the first oral antiviral treatment to fight Covid-19.
Preliminary results showed that 7.3% of 385 patients who received the antiviral were either hospitalized or died from Covid-19, compared with 14.1% of the 377 patients who received a placebo, Merck said earlier this month.
"Through Day 29, no deaths were reported in patients who received molnupiravir, as compared to 8 deaths in patients who received placebo," the statement said.
The FDA noted it doesn't always convene an advisory committee meeting to discuss a potential EUA, but it can when the committee discussion would help inform the agency's decision-making.
"We believe that, in this instance, a public discussion of these data with the agency's advisory committee will help ensure clear understanding of the scientific data and information that the FDA is evaluating to make a decision about whether to authorize this treatment for emergency use," Dr. Patrizia Cavazzoni, director of the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in a statement. 
CNN's Virginia Langmaid, Jen Christensen, Maggie Fox, Lauren Mascarenhas, Andy Rose, Peter Nickeas, Laura Ly and Casey Riddle contributed to this report. 
A version of this story appeared in CNN's Meanwhile in China newsletter, a three-times-a-week update exploring what you need to know about the country's rise and how it impacts the world. Sign up here.
Hong Kong (CNN)Almost two years into the Covid-19 pandemic, some of the world's major business hubs -- including New York, London and Paris -- are reopening as travel restrictions relax and daily life resumes.
But one city, arguably Asia's biggest financial center, is absent from the list: Hong Kong.
Hong Kong closed its borders to non-residents in early 2020 at the start of the pandemic. The semi-autonomous Chinese territory recently reopened to foreign visitors, although it still has some of the harshest quarantine rules in the world.
The long closure has impacted businesses and frustrated residents. Yet the government has stood firm -- repeatedly emphasizing that its priority is reopening its border with mainland China, not with the rest of the world.
"We have made it very clear that our focus will be opening the border with the mainland. Hong Kong people need to go to the mainland," said the city's leader, Carrie Lam, at a news conference on Tuesday. "Of course, international travel is important, international business is important to us -- but by comparison, the mainland is more important."
Lam's comments illustrate just how closely Hong Kong's government has tied its Covid strategy with China -- not surprising for a Chinese territory but a further sign of Hong Kong's deteriorating reputation as an international hub.

China has maintained a strict zero-Covid approach, even as many other countries transition to living with the coronavirus. Hong Kong's decision to follow suit means the diverse metropolis, once known for attracting international business and globetrotting expats, is instead retreating further into isolation. 
There are a few reasons why Hong Kong has made this decision, said Nicholas Thomas, an associate professor at the Department of Asian and International Studies at the City University of Hong Kong. Though about 63% of the population has been fully vaccinated, many received the Chinese Sinovac vaccine, which has had its efficacy against the highly infectious Delta variant questioned.
The government has also struggled to increase vaccine uptake among older people, meaning "a huge proportion of our population will be exposed to the problems associated with Delta the moment we open up internationally," Thomas said.
There's the economic argument as well. At the news conference on Tuesday, Lam argued that many Hong Kong-based companies do business in the mainland, which made the border reopening critical to the economy.
"Arguably, opening to China will bring in far more economic value," said Bernard Chan, convenor of the government advisory Executive Council. Before the pandemic, about 300,000 people were crossing the border every day -- now it's "a tiny figure," meaning significantly less business for the retail and hospitality sectors.
But there are also political considerations. In the politically tumultuous two years following the 2019 Hong Kong protests, China has extended more and more of its reach into the city -- and in return, Lam's administration has stepped up its rhetoric emphasizing integration with the mainland.
The city government doesn't want "to be seen as pursuing an opposing policy as the rest of China," Thomas said. "China is basically going to pursue the zero-tolerance strategy for the foreseeable future, which means Hong Kong can either go in opposition (and open internationally) or align with China."
But this approach has sowed growing discontent among the public, particularly foreign nationals, who make up nearly 10% of the city's 7.5 million population.
"For a lot of people, this is starting to go on two years missing grandparents, births, deaths, birthdays, anniversaries, etc," one senior banker in Hong Kong told Reuters. 
The American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong told CNN in September that "an unprecedented number" of expatriates have either left or are planning to leave. Headhunters are struggling to attract new talent to Hong Kong, with people looking instead to places with more relaxed rules.
In the face of intense criticism, the government has repeatedly defended its course of action. On Tuesday, Lam pointed to economic expansion in the first quarter to argue the city had not suffered badly from the tight restrictions.
And, Chan claimed, the majority of Hong Kongers are happy with things as they are. 
"It's just numbers," he said. The people who want to open up international travel -- expats, people with families abroad -- "unfortunately, that's a minority. Their priorities are different from those who are locally based."
The broader general public is "so used to zero cases, they're happy," he added. "They're willing to give up leisure travel for public health."
But pandemic fatigue has long set in, and there's no telling when the government's bet on China will pay off. On Sunday, a member of the Executive Council told local media the city might not be able to open its China border until February. Chan refuted that estimate, but didn't provide much hope for an earlier opening either. "It's a moving target," he said. "There's no plan of a specific date or anything at all."
Last month, the border cracked open somewhat -- but only one way, allowing some Chinese residents to enter Hong Kong without quarantine, not vice versa. 
The city is now effectively stuck in limbo, backed into a corner by its own policies with no easy path out. If Hong Kong reopens to international travel, it almost certainly will see a spike in infections -- and lose all chance of reopening with China.
But if it continues on its current path, there's no telling when China will feel confident enough to reopen the border, or what criteria Hong Kong needs to meet -- leaving the city at the whim of the central government, simply waiting to be allowed in. And it means clinging onto the zero-Covid strategy, "which is looking increasingly untenable in a world where Covid has become basically endemic," Thomas said.
"Hong Kong doesn't have any real power to decide upon," he added. "Neither option is ideal."

Repubbed for SEO at 2:48a
 (CNN)Southern states, many of which have been hotspots, are now starting to see a decrease in Covid-19 cases while many states that have started experiencing cold weather -- mostly in the North and Midwest -- are seeing an uptick, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.
New cases in Georgia and Florida are down 37% and 25%, respectively, compared to last week, JHU data showed. Both states had among the 10 lowest case rates in the past week. But a handful of states -- in regions where cold weather has set in -- are seeing an increase. This pattern is similar to what happened last year.
Five states saw Covid-19 cases increase more than 10% compared to last week, JHU data shows. Those states include Iowa, Oklahoma, Alaska, Vermont and New Hampshire.
Alaska, particularly, had more Covid-19 cases per capita than any other state over the past week, JHU data showed. Cases jumped 14% over the week before, and there were 125 new cases per 100,000 people each day, about five times the national average.
Vermont was once among the states with the lowest case rates, and now ranks among the 15 worst case rates. 
Cases are trending in the right direction in the US overall -- the daily average is down 10% over the past week.
The downturn of cases, hospitalizations and deaths could end with another spike, said Dr. Anthony Fauci the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. But the US could still prevent that spike with higher vaccination rates.
The US Food and Drug Administration is planning to allow people to receive a different Covid-19 vaccine as a booster shot than the one they initially received, people familiar with the FDA told The New York Times on Monday.
According to the Times, the FDA might note that getting the same vaccine as a booster is preferable, but it would not recommend one shot over the other.
The National Institutes of Health presented early information to the FDA's vaccine advisers Friday from an ongoing study showing that it didn't matter which vaccine people got first and which booster they got -- it was safe to mix boosters and it revved up immune response. Mixing boosters also provided a good response to the Delta variant.
Dr. Amanda Cohn, a member of FDA's vaccine advisory panel, said guidance about mixing and matching Covid vaccine booster shots would allow flexibility for the public and for those trying to offer vaccine doses to the public.
"I don't think there's any sort of need from a public health perspective to have a preference for mixing or matching," said Cohn, who is also chief medical officer for the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Center for Immunizations and Respiratory Diseases.
Although cases still remain high, with an average of about 85,000 new infections a day as of Sunday, they are down by more than 8,000 from a week prior, according to JHU data. Deaths are down an average of more than 200 a day from the start of the month.
Progress in the numbers is threatened, however, by the low rates of vaccination. As of Monday, 57% of the total population was fully vaccinated against the virus, according to the CDC.
And though health experts do not know exactly what proportion of the population needs to be protected to control the spread of the virus, Fauci has said a vast majority will need to be vaccinated.
Fauci does not think another spike in cases is inevitable.
"It's going to be within our capability to prevent that from happening," said Fauci, who is also the chief medical adviser to President Joe Biden. 
"The degree to which we continue to come down in that slope will depend on how well we do about getting more people vaccinated."
Mandates counterproductive, governor says
Health experts have pointed to vaccine mandates as a key tool to keeping cases down and relieving hospital strain, but some officials stand staunchly against the measures.
Fauci has been a proponent of mandates, saying the data shows that they work in getting more people vaccinated. And though it would be preferable to convince people to choose to get vaccinated, that is not always feasible, he said. 
"I think when you're in a public health crisis, sometimes unusual situations require unusual actions," Fauci told Fox News.
Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson said Sunday that he believes both federal and state mandates are counterproductive to increasing vaccination rates.  
Hutchinson told NBC News he believes muddled messaging at the highest levels of government has "slowed down acceptance of the vaccine and increased resistance." 
"I'd like to see us get to, without the mandate battle, let's just encourage the vaccine acceptance, build confidence in it, and that's the direction we need to go," the governor said.  
Asked specifically about the success of Tyson Foods and Walmart's vaccine mandates in the state of Arkansas, the governor said it is "absolutely" proof mandates work. 
"So yes, there is an effectiveness there. And so, let me make it clear that when I say I don't believe we ought to be engaged in mandates, I'm speaking of the government mandates, whether it's a federal government mandate or a state government mandate," he said. 
Hutchinson pointed out that employers must navigate a nuanced, on-the-ground reality of some employees wanting a vaccine mandated work environment to feel safe while others do not. Hutchinson said, based on that predicament, the choice of whether to mandate should be left in the hands of employers. 
Gottlieb pushes for research into Delta variant type seen in UK
Former FDA Commissioner Dr. Scott Gottlieb said "urgent research" is needed into a different version of the Delta variant of the coronavirus that has been seen in the UK, although there's no evidence that it's more transmissible.
"The variant has been in the UK since about July, but it has been slowly increasing in prevalence. There's no clear indication that it's considerably more transmissible, but we should work to more quickly characterize these and other new variants. We have the tools," he wrote in a tweet on Sunday.
"This is not a cause for immediate concern but a reminder that we need robust systems to identify, characterize new variants," he said. 
A report released by the UK Health Security Agency on Friday says in the week beginning September 27 -- the last full week with complete sequencing data -- this version accounted "for approximately 6% of all sequences generated, on an increasing trajectory."
Covid-19 cases, hospitalizations and deaths have all been rising in the UK, where there are no countrywide mask mandates and few travel restrictions from other countries. 
Even with waivers, some paid thousands for Covid hospitalizations, study says
Many insurers waived Covid-19 hospitalization costs in 2020, but those waivers didn't cover everything and out-of-pocket expenses cost patients a lot more than other respiratory diseases, according to a new study.
The study published Monday in JAMA Network Open found that out-of-pocket spending for Covid-19 hospitalization was about $4,000 on average for people with private insurance. For people with Medicare Advantage it was more than $1,500.
Researchers looked at hospitalization records for more than 4,000 people in 2020 and found that this spending was about four times the average out-of-pocket cost for other respiratory infections in 2019.
"The findings suggest that out-of-pocket spending for COVID-19 hospitalizations may be substantial if insurers allow cost-sharing waivers to expire," the study said. 
Minnesota governor announces incentives  
Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz announced that children in the 12-to-17 age group will be eligible for a $200 gift card if they get fully vaccinated.
Additionally, all children that are fully vaccinated will be entered into a weekly drawing for a $100,000 scholarship to a Minnesota college.
"It's an incentive, it's an acknowledgment that the sooner we get this group vaccinated, the sooner we spread our vaccinations, we're seeing it around the world," Walz said. "Once you start to get close to that 80% number, you start to see amazing things happen as the infections drop off."
CNN's Deidre McPhillips, Carma Hassan, Gregory Lemos, Jen Christensen, Jamie Gumbrecht, John Bonifield, Elizabeth Cohen and Jennifer Henderson contributed to this report.
 (CNN)With nearly three quarters of all adults fully vaccinated against Covid-19, the European Union is a world leader in inoculations. But the impressive headline number is obscuring an uncomfortable reality: the rollout has been extremely unequal across the union.
Some countries, including Ireland, Malta, Portugal and Denmark, have achieved near universal vaccination, boasting coverage rates of around 90%, according to the European Center for Disease Control (ECDC). On the other side of the bloc, Romania and Bulgaria have fully vaccinated only 33% and 22% of their adults, respectively.
The problem isn't down to vaccine shortages. All EU countries have access to all of the shots approved by the EU -- Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca, and Johnson & Johnson. Individual countries are also free to get other shots. Hungary, for example, has acquired Russian Sputnik vaccines for its population.  
"They have the vaccines. Anybody who wants to get vaccinated can," Ivan Krastev, a Bulgarian political scientist and a founding board member of the European Council on Foreign Relations, told CNN. 
Instead, Krastev said, Bulgaria struggles with deep-seated vaccine hesitancy that is fueled by political instability, conspiracy theories and a lack of faith in the authorities.
"There's high level of mistrust, and that goes both for Bulgaria and Romania," he said. "Even the medical community, doctors, nurses, many are hesitant to get vaccinated, so it's not a surprise that the society as a whole is too," he said.
Both Romania and Bulgaria have been battling spikes in new coronavirus cases since early September. Romania has reported over 45,000 new cases and more than 800 deaths in the week to Sunday, about the same level it saw at the peak of its second wave of the epidemic in April. 
The ECDC warned Thursday that states with low vaccination rates are risking surges in hospitalizations and deaths this fall if they relax social distancing measures. 
"In such a scenario, due to very high virus circulation, fully vaccinated vulnerable populations are also at risk of experiencing infection with a severe outcome," the ECDC said in its latest Covid-19 risk assessment, urging the countries that are struggling with inoculations to try to understand why their population remain hesitant and then address those issues. 
Bulgaria is holding its third parliamentary election this year in November. Two previous votes, in April and then in July, ended in a stalemate, with no government formed. As a result, the country is stuck in a perpetual election campaign with little room for anything else. 
"There has been much more election campaigning than vaccine campaigning," Krastev said. "Neither the government that was in power nor the caretaker government made vaccination a priority."
Krastev said the issue of vaccines hadn't divided Bulgarian society along partisan lines, because most people were generally united in their distrust of the political class. "The US has a major level of polarization; here it's not so much political polarization, but confusion and disgust with anything political that very much hurt the success of the [vaccination] campaign," he told CNN. 
Allegations of government corruption sparked widespread protests across Bulgaria last year. Police reacted with violence that shocked the nation -- and made people even more suspicious of the authorities. 
The media also played a role, Krastev said. "In order to make the debate more interesting, they would present the pro-vaccine and anti-vaccine opinions as equally valuable, so people get confused," he said.


The Romanian government has blamed its poor vaccination rollout on fake news and conspiracy theories that are being spread online. 
There are also stark inequalities within both countries. Roma communities in Romania and Bulgaria are among the least vaccinated. Dimitar Dimitrov, the director of the Roma Program at the Open Society Institute in Sofia, said the problem is down to strained relationships between the communities and wider society.
"Many Roma neighborhoods in Bulgaria have been subject to lockdowns without proper [explanation] even though the level of infections in other parts of the same municipalities has been higher. So this attitude from institutions towards Roma people and Roma neighborhoods shows why Roma don't trust institutions," Dimitrov told CNN. 
Dimitrov said many people, especially in rural areas, might also find it difficult to access vaccination clinics. "If you have to get a bus or train and travel 100 kilometers to get to the hospital and then wait in the line, that takes time and money. The vaccination itself is free but to get to the vaccination point costs money," Dimitrov said. 
The Romanian government recently announced it would put extra resources into ensuring people who can't access clinics are able to get the shots -- for example by requesting a doctor to visit them at home. 
The East-West divide
But Bulgaria and Romania aren't the only ones facing a hesitancy problem. The European Union appears to be divided into two parts. One half has embraced inoculation and got almost everyone immunized. The other is struggling to convince large numbers amid deep mistrust in the vaccines.
The dividing line sits roughly along the Iron Curtain boundary that once split Europe into East and West.
Of the bloc's 27 member states, the 15 top performers in terms of inoculation rates are all part of what used to be the Western bloc, while the bottom 10 are all former Communist countries. Greece and Lithuania are the only two countries bucking the trend, with Lithuania placing 16th and Greece 17th. 
All of the former Western countries, with the exception of Greece, have fully vaccinated at least 70% of their adults. None of the Eastern states have reached that threshold yet. 
Krastev said the way the pandemic unfolded across different countries could be one factor explaining the differences. "The countries that got hit by the first wave more, in 2020, when the shock was stronger, countries like Italy or Spain, they have more success with vaccination in general than the countries that were hit by the second wave," he said, adding that the Bulgarian government never managed to convince people that a high vaccination rate was a top priority. 
"Instead it became the matter of national pride that we never had lockdown," he said. 
Anna Niciska, an assistant professor at the Faculty of Economic Sciences at the University of Warsaw, has studied the reasons for vaccine hesitancy and said that history also plays a major role in influencing people's decisions. 
Niciska and her colleagues looked at data on trust in health care systems and medical authorities from 100 countries and found that mistrust was much higher in nations that had experienced Soviet-style communism in the past. People who had had firsthand experience of being lied to by their governments struggled to trust the authorities, even years after revolution, she explained. The longer people lived under communism, the higher the mistrust. 

"People exposed to Soviet Communism are less trustful in other people, the government and also the health care systems, [the experience] instills mistrust in the public domain and [anything] formal," she said. 
Niciska said this was one reason why strict vaccine requirements may not lead to significantly higher uptakes in such countries.
"A vaccination decision is based on trust and making it compulsory would be counterproductive, you have to remember that in many countries there's a long tradition of resistance towards the state, so people would find a way to avoid compulsory vaccination."
The European Commission has acknowledged the low vaccination rates in some of its member states as an issue.
"As long as the virus is not defeated in all member states, the virus is simply not defeated," a Commission spokesperson told CNN in a statement. The Commission said countries that are struggling to boost vaccination levels should focus on campaigns specifically targeting those who are hesitant, and stress the importance of science.

 (CNN)Brazil on Friday surpassed the grim milestone of 600,000 Covid-19 deaths, the second-highest number of fatalities in the world after the United States, according to John Hopkins University data.
The South American nation, which holds half the continent's population, has now suffered 600,425 coronavirus deaths. It is only the second country to pass the 600,000 mark, after the US which has registered 712,695 deaths.
Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro has been heavily criticized for his handling of the pandemic. The conservative populist leader has repeatedly downplayed the gravity of the outbreak, declared he would not get vaccinated because he had already had Covid-19, and championed the unproven malaria medicine hydroxychloroquine as a treatment.
Over the past year, Bolsonaro has frequently raged against municipal and state-level lockdown orders in Brazil, even during the grimmest moments of the pandemic, when hospitals filled to capacity and whole cities ran out of oxygen.

Earlier this month, thousands of protesters gathered in major cities across Brazil, calling for the President's impeachment amid worsening economic conditions, rising unemployment, and hunger in the Covid-wracked country.
Bolsonaro, who is up for reelection next year, told world leaders at the United Nations' General Assembly last month that while he regrets "all of the deaths that took place in Brazil and worldwide," the toll of unemployment must be balanced against that of the coronavirus. 
Deaths have risen sharply in Brazil, which in June passed the 500,000 mark. 
Vaccines offer hope
But despite Friday's tragic milestone, there are now signs that infections in Brazil are finally ebbing, as the country ramps up vaccinations after a slow start, Reuters reports. More than 70% of Brazilians have received a first dose, compared to 65% in the United States.
"The rejection rate of vaccines is really low, it makes other countries jealous," said Alexandre Naime Barbosa, head of epidemiology at Sao Paulo State University. "That's really important for Brazil to contain the pandemic."
Brazil also appears to have been spared the worst of the Delta variant so far, with registered deaths and cases falling despite the arrival of the more contagious strain.
Reuters, Caitlin Hu, Jonny Hallam and Helen Regan contributed to this report 
Hong Kong (CNN Business)China's big factories just had their worst month since the Covid-19 pandemic began, underscoring the scale of the slowdown in the world's second largest economy and the supply challenges facing their customers. 
A government survey of manufacturing activity released over the weekend fell for a second straight month, down to 49.2 in October from September's 49.6. Any reading below 50 indicates contraction.
Manufacturing in China has been battered by a handful of problems, including an energy crunch, shipping delays and rising inventories.
"It is clear that economic momentum is slowing quickly and supply chain pressures are compounding this weakness," wrote Mitul Kotecha, chief emerging markets Asia and Europe strategist at TD Securities, in a Monday research note. "While we could see some relief for manufacturers in the months ahead, the supply crunch appears well entrenched."
The global shipping crisis has created chaos worldwide, with many major companies recently acknowledging that clogged ports, missing parts and higher costs are hurting business. It's a concern that will weigh on the final quarter of the year, a critical holiday season for many retailers.
Not all of the data out of China has been bad. A private survey of factory data on Monday from media group Caixin, which focuses more on smaller and medium-sized companies, showed an increase from 50 in September to 50.6 in October. Caixin attributed the pickup in its index to recovering domestic demand, but noted that the power crunch and a shortage of raw materials has hurt supply.
Economists at Capital Economics pointed out that an average of the two surveys still indicates that more firms are reporting a fall in activity than a rise, indicating that output overall has been constrained. 
"Respondents to the surveys noted that reduced power supply, material shortages and high input costs held back output," wrote Sheana Yue, assistant economist at Capital Economics in a Monday note. 
As the cost of materials continues to rise worldwide, analysts expect supply bottlenecks to persist well into next year. 
The Chinese government has taken steps to address some of the issues. Early last month, for example, China ordered coal mines to ramp up production, just months after ordering the opposite to rein in carbon emissions. 
But analysts noted that those efforts aren't providing immediate relief.
"The government's strong measures to cap key coal price and boost coal production may take time to resolve the electricity shortage," wrote Ken Cheung Kin Tai, chief Asian foreign exchange strategist at Mizuho. 
An official index of non-manufacturing business activity, meanwhile, fell to 52.4 from September's 53.2, indicating that consumer demand remains a concern, even if activity is still expanding.
Yue of Capital Economics wrote that flagging data in the services sector suggests that a rebound in consumer activity over the summer is starting to slow. The survey's construction index also slipped, which Yue wrote "hints at a further pullback in property investment amid jitters over the financial health of Evergrande and other developers."
"We suspect the hard data due in the coming weeks will show that the recovery in services activity faltered last month," Yue added, noting the reimposition of restrictions as China tries to contain a coronavirus outbreak. The country has held firm to a strict "zero Covid" policy. "We continue to expect lackluster economic growth over the coming quarters."

 (CNN)New Zealand will begin to move away from a zero-Covid strategy toward living with the virus, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Monday, becoming the latest country to abandon its elimination attempts in the face of the highly-contagious Delta variant.
After shutting its borders early in the pandemic, New Zealand has reported just 4,409 Covid-19 infections and 27 deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins University -- among the lowest case numbers of any country.
But an outbreak in August, sparked by the Delta strain, plunged the major city of Auckland into a long lockdown. And despite the city enduring more than six weeks of restrictions on movement, New Zealand reported 24 new cases in the community on Tuesday -- the majority found in Auckland.
Ardern admitted Monday the virus was "a tentacle that has been incredibly hard to shake."
"To date we've managed to largely control the outbreak, but as you can see with this outbreak and with Delta, the return to zero is incredibly difficult," she said, adding that long periods of tough restrictions had been unable to sufficiently reduce infections. 
Ardern said while the transition to living with the virus was always a move New Zealand was going to make, the Delta variant had "accelerated" the change. The New Zealand leader didn't say exactly when the transition from the zero-Covid strategy would begin, but she emphasized the country was "not there yet."

"We need more people fully vaccinated, across more suburbs and more age groups," Ardern said. 
At least 49% of the country has been fully vaccinated, while 79% have had their first dose, according to New Zealand's Health Ministry.
Speaking at a news conference Tuesday, Ardern said New Zealanders would require vaccine certificates to access public events such as music festivals and other large gatherings, from as early as next month.
"If you are booked for a summer festival, this is a warning or a heads up, go and get vaccinated," she said.
New Zealand is joining several other countries in the Asia-Pacific region that have recently announced plans to live with the virus.
Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in August the country would start easing restrictions once it reached its national vaccination targets of up to 80%. 
And last week, he announced a roadmap that could see Australia's borders reopen to fully vaccinated citizens and permanent resident sometime in November. International arrivals for non-citizens are not expected to resume until next year. 
Speaking to reporters Monday, Ardern said she had no regrets about enforcing New Zealand's zero-Covid strategy over the past 18 months because it had saved lives.
"Elimination was important because we didn't have vaccines. Now we do," she said.
Record cases in Australia
New Zealand's announcement comes days before the expected relaxation of tough Covid restrictions in Sydney, Australia's largest city and capital of the state of New South Wales (NSW).
Sydney has been under lockdown for more than three months, but NSW authorities have said that once 70% of the state's population over 16 are double vaccinated, restrictions will lift for those who have had their shots.
NSW Premier Dominic Perrottet said it was likely that date will be October 11, with additional restrictions to be relaxed once the state hits an 80% double vaccination rate. The state is expected to fully open up on December 1. 
Covid-19 infections have dropped in NSW ahead of the expected reopening, with 608 confirmed cases reported Monday. But amid the optimism in Sydney, the neighboring state of Victoria is experiencing record numbers of new infections.
Victoria, home to Australia's second largest city, Melbourne, reported 1,763 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. That's the highest daily number in Australia during the pandemic, and brings the total number of cases reported by the state to 44,251. The death toll is 877.
Despite being in lockdown since August 5, Melbourne has struggled to bring the virus under control. Officials said a major sporting event in September led to a new wave of cases after people ignored restrictions to celebrate the occasion.
On Tuesday, Victoria's Premier Daniel Andrews said he still intends to ease many restrictions once the state reaches a 70% double vaccination rate, hopefully in late October.
"We want to get to 70% double dose, as quick as we can, then 80%, be open, be free, normalize this," he said.
CNN's Sophie Jeong in Hong Kong and Caitlin McGee in Auckland contributed reporting.
Brussels, BelgiumA World Health Organization-led program to ensure poorer countries get fair access to Covid-19 vaccines, tests and treatments aims to secure antiviral drugs for patients with mild symptoms for as little as $10 per course, a draft document seen by Reuters says.
Merck & Co's experimental pill molnupiravir is likely to be one of the drugs, and other drugs to treat mild patients are being developed.
The document, which outlines the goals of the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT-A) until September next year, says that the program wants to deliver about 1 billion Covid-19 tests to poorer nations, and procure drugs to treat up to 120 million patients globally, out of about 200 million new cases it estimates in the next 12 months.
The plans highlight how the WHO wants to shore up supplies of drugs and tests at a relatively low price after losing the vaccine race to wealthy nations which scooped up a huge share of the world's supplies, leaving the world's poorest countries with few shots.
A spokesperson for the ACT-A said the document, dated October 13, was still a draft under consultation and declined to comment on its content before it is finalized. The document will also be sent to global leaders ahead of a G20 summit in Rome at the end of this month. The ACT-A asks the G20 and other donors for additional funding of $22.8 billion until September 2022 which will be needed to buy and distribute vaccines, drugs and tests to poorer nations and narrow the huge gaps in supply between wealthy and less advanced countries. Donors have so far pledged $18.5 billion to the program.
The financial requests are based on detailed estimates about the price of drugs, treatments and tests, which will account for the program's biggest expenses alongside the cost of distributing vaccines.
Although it does not explicitly cite molnupiravir, the ACT-A document expects to pay $10 dollar per course for "novel oral antivirals for mild/moderate patients."
Other pills to treat mild patients are being developed, but molnupiravir is the only one which has so far showed positive results in late-stage trials. The ACT-A is in talks with Merck & Co and generics producers to buy the drug.
The price is very low if compared with the $700 per course that the United States has agreed to pay for 1.7 million courses of the treatment.
However, a study carried out by Harvard university estimated that molnupiravir could cost about $20 dollars if produced by generic drugmakers, with the price potentially going down to $7.7 under an optimized production.
Merck & Co. has licensing deals with eight Indian generic drugmakers.

The ACT-A document says that its target is to reach a deal by the end of November to secure the supply of an "oral outpatient drug," which it aims to be available from the first quarter of next year.
The money raised would initially be used to "support procurement of up to 28 million treatment courses for highest risk mild/moderate patients over the next 12 months, depending on product availability, clinical guidance, and volumes changing with evolution of needs," the document says, noting this volume would be secured under an advance purchase agreement.
Larger additional amounts of new oral antivirals to treat mild patients are also expected to be procured at a later stage, the document says.
Another 4.3 million courses of repurposed Covid-19 pills to treat critical patients are also expected to be purchased at a price of $28 per course, the document says, without naming any specific drug.
The ACT-A also intends to address essential medical oxygen needs of 6-8 million severe and critical patients by September 2022.
Investment in tests
In addition, the program plans to invest massively in Covid-19 diagnostics in order to at least double the number of tests carried out in poorer nations, defined as low income and low-middle income countries.
Of the $22.8 billion, ACT-A plans to raise in the next 12 months, about one third and the largest share is to be spent on diagnostics, the document says.
Currently poor countries conduct on average about 50 tests per 100,000 people every day, against 750 tests in richer nations. The ACT-A wants to bring testing rates to a minimum of 100 tests per 100,000 in poorer states.
That means delivering around 1 billion tests in the next 12 months, around 10 times more than the ACT-A has procured so far, the document shows.
The largest share of diagnostics would be rapid antigen tests at a price of around $3, and only 15% would be spent to procure molecular tests, which are more accurate but take more time to deliver results and are estimated to cost around $17, including delivery costs, the document shows.
The push on tests is meant to narrow the gap between the rich and the poor, as only 0.4% of the about 3 billion tests reported across the world have been conducted in poor nations, the document says.
It would also help spot earlier possible new variants, which tend to proliferate when infections are widespread, and therefore are more likely in the countries with lower vaccination rates.
The document underlines that "vaccine access is highly inequitable with coverage ranging from 1% to over 70%, depending largely on a country's wealth."
The program aims to vaccinate at least 70% of the eligible population in all countries by the middle of next year, in line with the WHO's goals.

 (CNN)The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has concluded that a booster shot of the Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna coronavirus vaccines "may be given to people with severely weakened immune systems, at least 28 days after their second dose," according to a statement Monday.
The regulator said it had come to the decision to recommend a third shot after studies showed an extra dose of the two vaccines "increased the ability to produce antibodies against the virus that causes COVID-19 in organ transplant patients with weakened immune systems." 
The EMA statement added that there was "no direct evidence" that being able to produce antibodies protected against coronavirus, but "it is expected that the extra dose would increase protection at least in some patients." 
The agency said it would continue to watch for data on the effectiveness of protection. 
It also drew a distinction between giving the extra dose to people with compromised immune systems and those without. For people with normal immune systems, the EMA concluded that booster doses of BioNTech/Pfizer "may be considered at least 6 months after the second dose for people aged 18 years and older."  
According to data it evaluated, an extra dose of the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine caused a rise in antibody levels when the dose is given "approximately 6 months after the second dose in people from 18 to 55 years old."  The EMA said it is currently evaluating data to support a booster dose for the Moderna vaccine for those with normal immune systems.
The EMA directed European Union nations to issue "official recommendations on the use of booster doses, taking into account emerging effectiveness data and the limited safety data." However, it cautioned that the "risk of inflammatory heart conditions or other very rare side effects after a booster is not known and is being carefully monitored."
Some European countries had already started deploying booster shots before the EMA's broad recommendation on Monday. Germany, Italy, France and several other nations are already administering them to people facing higher risk of serious illness. 
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have also already recommended additional doses for some Americans, including people who are 65 years old or older, those with compromised immune systems and people who live or work in a setting that puts them at a high risk of exposure to Covid-19, such as health care workers, teachers or people living in shelters. 
Several studies published in September supported the argument that individuals may require booster doses of Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine over time, with data suggesting extra doses would be safe. The reports were part of the scientific evidence analyzed by the FDA -- including data from Israel's booster program which started in August -- when coming to its recommendation last month. 
Also in September, Dr. Hans Kluge, regional director for Europe at the World Health Organization (WHO), told CNN's Christiane Amanpourthat, so far, there was "no evidence that the general population would need a third jab."
However, Kluge cautioned that "we should be on alert" and "follow the evidence," citing Israel as an example. "Quite aproportion of the people who areinfected now or end up inhospital were the elderly peoplewho got two jabs," Kluge said.
When pressed on global vaccine inequity, Kluge called for "political leadership and coordination" to manage the excess supply of vaccine doses.
"There are some estimates of 1.2 billion excess doses in the West between now and the end of the year. But we have to ensure that those excess doses get where they are most needed," he added.
Previously, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called on wealthy nations to refrain from boosting their Covid-19 vaccinations until doses are available to more of the world.
"I'm calling for an extension of the moratorium, until at least the end of the year, to enable every country to vaccinate at least 40% of its population," he said.
The WHO chief acknowledged that third doses may be needed for those most at risk who see their immunity wane, "but for now, we do not want to see widespread use of boosters for healthy people who are fully vaccinated," he added.
CNN's Ivana Kottasova and Harry Hullah contributed to this report. 
 (CNN)A Brazilian congressional panel is set to recommend mass homicide charges against President Jair Bolsonaro over his handling of the coronavirus pandemic, according to a leaked draft government report seen by CNN on Tuesday.
CNN Brasil received draft excerpts of a congressional investigation that accuses Bolsonaro and other government officials of allowing the lethal coronavirus to spread through the population in hopes of achieving herd immunity.
More than 600,000 people have died of Covid-19 in Brazil, which has the second-highest death toll in the world after the United States.
The excerpts show the probe's report effectively blames the Bolsonaro administration's policies for more than half of those deaths, and calls for murder charges against the President. 
However, parts of the draft document could still be changed or updated ahead of its formal presentation.
The government's "reckless" approach to the pandemic exposed Brazilians to a "a concrete risk of mass infection," one excerpt reads. Another highlights an alleged "intention to immunize the population through natural contamination."  
"With this behavior, the federal government, which had a legal duty to act, agreed with the death of Brazilians," it says.
The draft report also recommends criminal charges against 69 other people, including three of Bolsonaro's sons and numerous current and former government officials.
The final, nearly 1,200-page document is expected to be officially discussed in the Brazilian Senate on Wednesday, the Brazilian Senate Pandemic Parliamentary Inquiry (CPI) told CNN.
Bolsonaro's office did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment. The President, who is up for reelection next year, has previously criticized the investigation into his pandemic handling as politically motivated. 
In July, Bolsonaro accused the CPI of ignoring other allegations of corruption across Brazil to focus on him and his government.
"They want to accuse me of genocide. Now, tell me in what country people have not died? This CPI has no credibility," Bolsonaro said. 
He also said then that he was "sorry about the dead, but people who were healthy had little chance of dying."
Bolsonaro has has long downplayed the gravity of the virus, and argued for the need to prioritize Brazil's economic health. He himself tested positive for Covid-19 in 2020.
The CPI's monthslong parliamentary inquiry into the Brazilian government's Covid-19 response began in May. It has drawn on testimony from top former health officials, including former Health Ministers Luiz Henrique Mandetta and Eduardo Pazuello, and uncovered explosive claims of alleged corruption, including inflated vaccine purchase prices.
In his testimony, Mandetta also said the government knew early on that its endorsement of the drugs chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine had little factual grounding. "The government was aware that it was prescribing chloroquine without any scientific evidence," the CPI heard this spring.
Bolsonaro is now directly accused of committing at least 11 crimes in the leaked CPI report, which alleges the President is responsible for crimes against humanity, incitement to commit crime, and "charlatanism."
If approved by the Senate Commission next week, the report would be sent to Attorney General Augusto Aras, who would then have 30 days to announce any measures stemming from the report.  Aras, widely seen as an ally of Bolsonaro, is not expected to charge the President with murder.
Reporting contributed by CNN's Rodrigo Pedroso in Sao Paulo and Samantha Beech in Atlanta.
Rome (CNN)Down a narrow, winding street in central Rome, golden cobblestones shine out from the footpath in front of homes, etched with the words: "Deportata Auschwitz" ("deported to Auschwitz").
One of the stones is dedicated to Rossana Calo, who was just two years old when she, along with her mother, was transported hundreds of miles to the Nazi death camp; on arrival, she was killed in the gas chambers. 
These plaques, commemorating more than 1,000 victims snatched from their homes in the Italian capital's Jewish Ghetto in October 1943, are a sobering reminder of the country's dark past. 
Italy entered World War II as an ally of Adolf Hitler in 1940, but Benito Mussolini's Fascist regime had already embraced anti-Semitism. Months after he was overthrown in 1943, German authorities began to round up Jews in Rome and other major cities in the country's north.  
More than 75 years after Mussolini's inglorious death at the hands of partisans, the debate about fascist ideology -- and its continuing appeal to some Italians -- has been reignited in the wake of the government's attempts to control the coronavirus pandemic.  
On October 9, the headquarters of Italy's largest trade union and a hospital emergency ward in Rome were targeted during angry protests against the country's Covid-19 "Green Pass."
The Green Pass, which came into force last Friday, requires all workers -- from caf staff to care workers, taxi drivers to teachers -- to show proof of vaccination, a negative test or recent recovery from infection. Italy -- once Europe's Covid-19 epicenter -- now has the continent's strongest vaccine mandate. 
Members of the neo-fascist Forza Nuova were arrested in relation to the violent attacks in Rome.
 
Fascist parties banned 
 
"Fascism never went away in this country," said history professor Simon Martin, the author of several books on Italian fascism. "Italy has not confronted its past. There is no appetite for this, I think, on either side."  
Martin said thousands of people still line up each year on anniversaries, such as Mussolini's birth, death and "March on Rome," to visit his tomb in Predappio, 200 miles northeast of Rome, despite the fact he ran a repressive police state, and was responsible for brutal colonial campaigns and massacres during his 20 years in power.  
"[It] has a book of condolence which has to be changed on a regular basis because it fills up," he said. 
A 1952 law banned the reconstitution of fascist parties in Italy, but they have reformed under alternative names, Martin told CNN during a visit to the Jewish Ghetto.  
The violence of the Green Pass protests on October 9 has led to mounting calls to dissolve neo-fascist groups in the country. Organizers canceled an anti Covid-19 green pass demo in the northeastern city of Trieste planned for Friday and Saturday, and urged protesters not to attend over fears of violence.
This week, Italian lawmakers in both the upper house Senate and lower house voted in favor of a motion put forward by the country's center-left parties, which calls on Prime Minister Mario Draghi's government to dissolve Forza Nuova and all movements of neo-fascist inspiration. Draghi and his Council of Ministers will now consult legal experts before announcing a decision.
Forza Nuova's lawyer Carlo Taormina told CNN the group is currently being dismantled and has not been active as a political movement for 20 months.  
In response to the violent scenes on October 9, tens of thousands of people demonstrated against fascism in Rome's San Giovanni Square at the weekend. 
"I came here because it is important to send a message," Jacopo Basili, 30, told CNN at the rally organized by Italy's main trades unions. "What happened was very bad, as if we were returning to 100 years ago in Italy. Today we must say no. It is not possible."  

Another demonstrator, Leone Rivara, told CNN he doesn't believe the threat of fascism in Italy today compares to the Mussolini era, but that social tensions in the country have been "aggravated by the pandemic," and that "forces that declare themselves democratic ... cross boundaries and exploit the weakness, the fragility, the anger, the delusion of the people to [upset] the democratic balance of this country." 
One group accused of doing just that is the Fratelli d'Italia, or Brothers of Italy, a right-wing party that made international headlines when one of its members, Rachele Mussolini -- granddaughter of Benito -- was elected to Rome's city council for a second term earlier this month. 
Rachele Mussolini won more than 8,200 votes -- the highest number tallied for any candidate -- and a huge increase on the 657 votes she received in the 2016 ballot. 
"I will strive not to disappoint those who trusted me and to conquer those who don't know me ... My goal is to keep working for my city to give it back [its] lost dignity," she wrote in a Facebook post following her re-election. 
CNN contacted Rachele Mussolini, via her press secretary, to ask if she finds it hard to distinguish herself from the fascist associations tied to her last name, but has not received a response.
She is not the first descendant of the Italian dictator to go into politics. Her stepsister Alessandra served as a member of parliament in Silvio Berlusconi's center-right People of Freedom alliance, and was a Member of the European Parliament. 
Opinion polls suggest Fratelli d'Italia, which grew out of the neo-fascist Italian Social Movement party (MSI), is currently the most popular party in Italy.  
The Fratelli d'Italia party -- along with Matteo Salvini's right-wing Lega and the centre-right Forza Italia -- recently backed radio host and lawyer Enrico Michetti in his fight to become Rome's next mayor.  
On Monday, Michetti lost the run-off vote by roughly 20%. During the campaign, his office was defaced with the word "fascista."
Asked why Fratelli d'Italia is still affiliated with fascism, the party's leader Giorgia Meloni told CNN her party is not a breeding ground for such a regime.  
Andrea Ungari, professor of contemporary history at Rome's LUISS university said he believes a small proportion of Italians could be defined as having fascist beliefs.  
Neo-fascist groups Forza Nuova and CasaPound did not participate in Italy's most recent elections.
"It's difficult to define Fratelli d'Italia as a fascist party," Ungari said. "Of course, there are some declarations ... some harsh attitudes ... it is clearly a right-wing party but with the difference between right and extreme right."  
"In Italy there is the heritage of fascism of course but sometimes it's a term utilized by the left to monopolise the political debate," Ungari warned.  
Numerous reminders of fascism
Monuments linked to racism, colonialism and shameful moments in history have been removed from countries around the world in the wake of the Black Lives Matter protests.
In Italy though, architecture from the 20 years of Benito Mussolini's rule is maintained. Unlike Germany, which outlawed and eradicated Nazi symbols in the aftermath of World War II, Italy left numerous reminders of the fascist era standing.  
Rome's sports complex -- Foro Mussolini, or Mussolini's forum -- which houses the city's main soccer stadium Stadio Olimpico, has been renamed Foro Italico, but an almost 60-foot marble obelisk bearing Mussolini's name still towers outside it. 
Ostiense railway station, which was built to commemorate Hitler's visit to Rome in 1938 and boasts a mosaic themed around the Italian fascist ideology that modern Italy was the heir to ancient Rome, is still one of the city's major railway stations.  

And the Palazzo della Civilt Italiana -- a six-storey marble tower constructed as the centerpiece of Mussolini's new neighborhood, Esposizione Universale Roma, in the city's southwest -- remains engraved with a phrase from his 1935 speech announcing the invasion of Ethiopia. 
"I think the real problem with those statues is there's nothing to contextualize them ... [nothing] to tell us what fascism was about," said history professor Martin. 
Martin said that while it may not be practical to tear down all of Italy's fascist-era buildings, because of the sheer numbers involved, "it should be contextualized. We need to talk about what it means."  
As for the motion to ban neo-fascist groups and parties, it "would be a statement of intent by the government," said Martin, but it is unlikely to change people's ideas. 
CNN's Barbie Latza Nadeau and Nicola Ruotolo contributed to this report.
Change your relationship with stress. Sign up for CNN's Stress, But Less newsletter, a six-part guide that will inform and inspire you to reduce stress while learning how to harness it.
 (CNN)As we head into what was supposed to be the fall recovery, the world is still reeling from Covid-related anxiety. It shows up in tepid job recovery and stock market tremors as well as in disagreements over masks and vaccine requirements in our schools and communities. 
It's not just Covid-19 that's stressing us out. Violent crime is up. Historic heat waves and floods have devastated regions of the United States. And research shows that depression and anxiety in youth around the world has doubled compared with levels before the pandemic.
For advice on how to cope this fall, we turned to stress management expert Dr. Cynthia Ackrill, an editor for Contentment magazine, produced by the American Institute of Stress. 
This conversation has been lightly edited for clarity.
CNN: As we head deeper into the fall and winter months, what should we be mindful of when it comes to stress?
Dr. Cynthia Ackrill: One underlying driver of all kinds of stress is the mismatch of our expectations for what should be happening and what we perceive is happening. 
Some of these are unique to this year: "Covid is going to be over, and the world is going to return. We should be coming out of this. We shouldn't have so much uncertainty ahead."  
And yet here we are, still in kind of a mess. We're each, at our own pace, having to grapple with the reality that the new normal is change. The new normal is that we've got to figure out how to do self-care and how to negotiate the challenging world of work during Covid. 
There are so many things to give us hope out there, but it's just a little harder to hold on to them right now and imagine how are we going to emerge from this stronger.

CNN: How can we move out of stress as stronger, more resilient people?
Ackrill: The coming months offer a great opportunity to reflect -- whether as a family or a team at work or a group of friends -- on what have we learned in the last year or so and how do we apply it to the future.
How do we hold on to what matters? How do we stay grounded? How do we keep building our awareness of when we're OK and not OK? How do we keep up our energy to face life challenges?
And it will be different for each of us. When we are stressed, there is an input to our brains from the external or internal world that our brain reads as a dangerous signal. 
Now, whether you read this input as a danger signal and I read it as a delight depends on our genetics, on the stories of our lives, the circumstances, the context of the moment. What stresses me may not stress you and vice versa.
So, once you decide you are facing stress, there's the "Can I handle it?" assessment. And that is a critical point, because if I can handle it, this stress may actually be motivating and good for me. Not all stress is bad. 
We all need it to grow. Stress we have the "coping confidence" to handle is not toxic to us in the way stress that overwhelms us is.
CNN: What tips can you give us to cope with chronic stress?
Ackrill: I like to talk about this in easy steps you can use to identify and then treat your stress triggers: 
Step 1: Awareness building. Learn more about the physiology of stress and what that means for your best health and happiness. Use reflection to learn a little about your relationship with stress. What are your "go-to" stories about your stress?
What matters most to you? What makes you strong? What typically triggers you, and what typically helps you in stressful situations? What mindsets work best for you?
Take a few moments to jot down your reflections. Knowing your motivators, strengths, needs and what works best for you will help you work with your brain during stressful times.  
Step 2: Learn to calm yourself.  There are some simple "Calm Down to Power Up" skills you can learn, such as breathwork, to shift your stress levels or your mindset in the moment.
Using breath to calm your physiology improves your brainpower to handle the situation. There are a myriad of choices out there -- mantras, guided visualizations, progressive relaxation and more.
The key is to learn one or two and practice them until they are always in your resilience tool belt. This is a great team or family activity. 
Many different versions of breathwork are helpful. Whenever you bring your attention to your breath, slow it down, and bring it down to the bottom of your lungs (soft belly breathing), you trigger the parasympathetic nervous system (recovery system), resetting your physiology and bringing more blood flow back to your executive brain function.
For adults, there is a lot of research around a rate of about six breaths/minute, so counting five in and five out is a great start. 
There are so many apps to talk you though breathwork, progressive relaxation and a number of ways to find calm in the moment.
In recent years, there also has been a growing number of technologies to give you feedback to know whether you are effectively changing your physiology. These offer a way to really train your ability to reset. 
For example, learning to raise your heart rate variability -- a measure of the subtle changes in heart rate that occur with your breath -- is a good indicator of balancing your system and reducing health risks. There are programs to measure and train skin conductance, breath rate, temperature, etc., and many require only your smartwatch or phone. 
Step 3: Build resilience habits. Brainstorm what drains you and what energizes you physically, mentally, emotionally and spiritually. (And by spiritually, I mean how you connect or get meaning from the bigger picture of life). 
How can you minimize the drains and maximize the rechargers? Get creative! Build in fun. Pick one or two small habit shifts to "play" with over the next few weeks. Consider partnering with a buddy to keep each other accountable in forming new habits. 
Make sure to pick things you can do easily -- small steps in the direction of more energy. Maybe try going to bed 15 minutes earlier, drinking one full water bottle before lunch, checking in with two friends each week or walking outside at lunch. Your success with the tiniest of choices will empower you to feel more in control. 
Small tweaks in how you are spending and recharging yourself can add up to much more energy and resilience. Approach your chosen behavior shifts with curiosity, creativity and compassion. There is no one-size-fits-all solution. Trial and error are part of the journey. 
Step 4: Put YOU on your calendar. Schedule a weekly meeting with yourself to check in on what is and isn't working, proactively schedule self-care and recharging, and stay accountable to what really matters to you. 
You can also do this as a family or team. Once a week, compare schedules, capture anything outstanding, discuss energy management and realistic goals for the week. Then, build in fun and celebrations of successes.
The good news is that you can continually tweak your habits to grow stronger, happier and healthier. Covid has certainly illuminated what isn't working in our society, systems and personal lives. Let's use that data to build resilience.
Step 5: Reach out to others. Stress can make us feel alone or shameful, like somehow others are coping so much better than we are. But the truth is when we reach out and connect, we are healthier and happier. Research shows that meaningful social connection supports resilience and longevity. It's not about being popular, but more about being present and open with others. 
No one may be in your exact situation, but in working with so many "successful" people, I've learned that we share much more of the full range of human experience than we know. Here's hoping that one silver lining to Covid is that we're learning to discuss our very human feelings and vulnerabilities in ways that make us all stronger. 

 (CNN)Colin Powell, the first Black US secretary of state whose leadership in several Republican administrations helped shape American foreign policy in the last years of the 20th century and the early years of the 21st, has died from complications from Covid-19, his family said on Facebook. He was 84.
"General Colin L. Powell, former U.S. Secretary of State and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, passed away this morning due to complications from Covid 19," the Powell family wrote on Facebook, noting he was fully vaccinated. 
Powell had multiple myeloma, a cancer of plasma cells that suppresses the body's immune response, as well as Parkinson's, Peggy Cifrino, Powell's longtime chief of staff, confirmed to CNN. Even if fully vaccinated against Covid-19, those who are immunocompromised are at greater risk from the virus.
"We have lost a remarkable and loving husband, father, grandfather and a great American," the family said.
Powell was a distinguished and trailblazing professional soldier whose career took him from combat duty in Vietnam to becoming the first Black national security adviser during the end of Ronald Reagan's presidency and the youngest and first African American chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President George H.W. Bush. His national popularity soared in the aftermath of the US-led coalition victory during the Gulf War, and for a time in the mid-90s, he was considered a leading contender to become the first Black President of the United States. But his reputation would be forever stained when, as George W. Bush's first secretary of state, he pushed faulty intelligence before the United Nations to advocate for the Iraq War, which he would later call a "blot" on his record. 
Bush said in a statement Monday that Powell was "a great public servant" who was "such a favorite of Presidents that he earned the Presidential Medal of Freedom -- twice. He was highly respected at home and abroad. And most important, Colin was a family man and a friend."
Though Powell never mounted a White House bid, when he was sworn in as Bush's secretary of state in 2001, he became the highest-ranking Black public official to date in the country, standing fourth in the presidential line of succession.   
"I think it shows to the world what is possible in this country," Powell said of his history-making nomination during his Senate confirmation hearing. "It shows to the world that: Follow our model, and over a period of time from our beginning, if you believe in the values that espouse, you can see things as miraculous as me sitting before you to receive your approval."   
The Point: The Colin Powell Republican no longer exists in the Republican Party
Later in his public life, Powell would grow disillusioned with the Republican Party's rightward lurch and would use his political capital to help elect Democrats to the White House, most notably Barack Obama, the first Black president whom Powell endorsed in the final weeks of the 2008 campaign.  
The announcement was seen as a significant boost for Obama's candidacy due to Powell's widespread popular appeal and stature as one of the most prominent and successful Black Americans in public life. 
Powell is survived by his wife, Alma Vivian (Johnson) Powell, whom he married in 1962, as well as three children.
Alma Powell, who is fully vaccinated against the virus, also tested positive for Covid-19 this month, but only exhibited mild symptoms, a source close to the family told CNN. She was sent home after treatment at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center.
Cifrino told CNN Powell was vaccinated early on and received his second shot in February. He was scheduled to get his booster shot this past week but that was when he fell ill so he wasn't able to receive it. Covid-19 vaccines are a highly effective tool in preventing severe disease and death, but no vaccine is 100% effective. 
More than 7,000 breakthrough cases of Covid-19 that have resulted in death have been reported to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention through October 12. By that time, more than 187 million people in the US were fully vaccinated. That's one out of every 26,000 fully vaccinated people who has died of Covid-19, or 0.004%.
Of those breakthrough cases resulting in death, 85% were among people age 65 and older and 57% were among men, according to the CDC.
CDC data also show that the risk of dying from Covid-19 is more than 11 times higher for unvaccinated adults than it is for vaccinated adults throughout August. Among seniors, who are more susceptible to severe Covid-19, that gap is smaller. Among those 80 and older, the risk of dying from Covid-19 in August was about five times higher among unvaccinated people than among fully vaccinated people. 
Leaders mourn a 'trailblazer and role model'
Powell's death was met with an outpouring of grief from former and current leaders, including President Joe Biden who described Powell a "dear friend" and a dedicated public servant who broke barriers.
"Colin embodied the highest ideals of both warrior and diplomat. He was committed to our nation's strength and security above all. Having fought in wars, he understood better than anyone that military might alone was not enough to maintain our peace and prosperity. From his front-seat view of history, advising presidents and shaping our nation's policies, Colin led with his personal commitment to the democratic values that make our country strong. Time and again, he put country before self, before party, before all else -- in uniform and out -- and it earned him the universal respect of the American people," Biden said.
Former Vice President Dick Cheney, who served alongside Powell under Bush said he was "deeply saddened to learn that America has lost a leader and statesman. General Powell had a remarkably distinguished career, and I was fortunate to work with him," Cheney said in a statement, adding that Powell was a "trailblazer and role model."
Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Powell's predecessor at the department, remembered him on Monday as "a wise and principled man, a loyal friend, and one of the kindest people I have ever met."
"Although we grew up in different contexts, we bonded over our family's immigrant stories, our deep love of America, and our belief in the importance of public service," she said in a statement. 
Condoleezza Rice, who succeeded Powell at State following his retirement in 2005, said on Monday that he "was a trusted colleague and a dear friend through some very challenging times," adding in her own statement that "much of his legacy will live on in the countless number of young lives he touched."

And Antony Blinken, the current officeholder, said Monday that Powell "gave the State Department the very best of his leadership, his experience, his patriotism."
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said in remarks on Monday that in Powell he "lost a tremendous personal friend and mentor."
"He always made time for me and I could always go to him with tough issues. He always had great counsel. We will certainly miss him," said Austin, who himself made history earlier this year as the first Black Defense secretary.
Professional soldier 
Colin Luther Powell was born April 5, 1937, in Harlem, New York, to Jamaican immigrants. After growing up in the South Bronx, Powell attended school at the City College of New York, where he participated in ROTC, leading the precision drill team and attaining the top rank offered by the corps, cadet colonel.    
"I liked the structure and the discipline of the military," Powell said, according to a CNN profile of him in the early 2000s. "I felt somewhat distinctive wearing a uniform. I hadn't been distinctive in much else."  
He entered the US Army after graduating in 1958, and later served two tours in South Vietnam during the 1960s, where he was wounded twice, including during a helicopter crash in which he rescued two soldiers. He stayed in the Army after returning home, attending the National War College and rising in leadership. He was promoted to brigadier general in 1979, appointed as Reagan's final national security adviser in 1987 and was tapped by the elder Bush in 1989 to head the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
Powell's tenure in the elder Bush's administration was marked by his involvement in some of the most notable American military actions of the late 20th century, including the 1989 Panama operation, the 1991 Gulf War and the US humanitarian intervention in Somalia, though he retired from the Army days before the disastrous Battle of Mogadishu. 
Although Powell was initially reluctant to commit US troops when Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, he became one of the administration's most trusted spokesmen when the assault on Saddam Hussein's army finally came.  
"First we're going to cut it off. Then we're going to kill it," Powell famously said at a news conference at the time, referring to the Iraqi army. 
Following the assault, Powell became something of a national hero, enjoying a 71% favorability rating in the first few years after the war. His efforts during the war also earned him two prominent awards: a Congressional Gold Medal in March 1991 "in recognition of his exemplary performance in planning and coordinating" the US response to Iraq's invasion, and a Presidential Medal of Freedom.  
As the elder Bush presented Powell with the award at a White House ceremony in 1991, he said the general's "deep compassion for every one of the thousands of men and women under (his) command will always be remembered."   
During Powell's time in the military, which lasted until 1993, he also received a number of other notable awards, including the Bronze Star and two Purple Hearts. He received his fourth star in 1989, becoming the second African American to rise to that rank.   
In addition to the military awards, Powell also received the President's Citizens Medal, the Secretary of State Distinguished Service Medal, and the Secretary of Energy Distinguished Service Medal, as well as a second Presidential Medal of Freedom, awarded with distinction, from President Bill Clinton.   
Top diplomat during turbulent time 
With a prominent national profile, Powell was floated as a potential presidential candidate in the 1996 election. But in a highly anticipated decision, he declined to participate in the race, citing a lack of "passion" for electoral politics.   
"Such a life requires a calling that I do not yet hear," he told reporters in 1995. "And for me to pretend otherwise would not be honest to myself, it would not be honest to the American people."   
Powell was again encouraged to run in the 2000 presidential election, but rebuffed calls for him to mount a bid. He instead endorsed George W. Bush, delivering a speech at the Republican National Convention in which he argued that the then-governor of Texas would "help bridge our racial divides."   
He was Bush's first Cabinet selection when he was announced as the 43rd President's nomination for secretary of state, and with his expertise in foreign policy and widespread popularity, he was unanimously confirmed by the Senate. 
He shared Bush's reluctance to project military strength across the globe, a view that was quickly displaced by the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. As Bush's top diplomat, he was tasked with building international support for the War on Terror, including the Afghanistan War, but it was his involvement in the administration's push for intervention in Iraq, over the concerns of many of America's longtime allies, for which his tenure at State would become best known. 
In February 2003, Powell delivered a speech before the United Nations in which he presented evidence that the US intelligence community said proved Iraq had misled inspectors and hid weapons of mass destruction.    
"There can be no doubt," Powell warned, "that Saddam Hussein has biological weapons and the capability to rapidly produce more, many more."
Inspectors, however, later found no such weaponry in Iraq, and two years after Powell's UN speech, a government report said the intelligence community was "dead wrong" in its assessments of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction capabilities before the US invasion.  
But the damage was already done -- to both Iraq, which the US went to war with just six weeks after Powell's speech, and to the reputation of the once highly popular statesman, who was reportedly told by Cheney before the UN speech: "You've got high poll ratings; you can afford to lose a few points."  
Powell, who left the State Department in early 2005 after submitting his resignation to Bush the previous year, later called his UN speech a "blot" that will forever be on his record.   
"I regret it now because the information was wrong -- of course I do," he told CNN's Larry King in 2010. "But I will always be seen as the one who made the case before the international community."   
"I swayed public opinion, there's no question about it," he added, referring to how influential his speech was on public support for the invasion.   
In his 2012 memoir, "It Worked for Me," Powell again acknowledged the speech, writing that his account of it in the book would likely be the last he publicly made.   
"I am mad mostly at myself for not having smelled the problem. My instincts failed me," he wrote, referring to the report he used that contained faulty evidence of supposed Iraqi WMDs. "It was by no means my first, but it was one of my most momentous failures, the one with the widest-ranging impact."   
"The event will earn a prominent paragraph in my obituary," Powell wrote.   
Shifting politics 
After leaving the Bush administration, Powell returned to private life. He joined the renowned venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins in 2005, where he worked as a strategic adviser until his death. For a time, he gave speeches at "Get Motivated!" business seminars, and he authored the 2012 memoir.    
Though the large majority of Powell's time as a public servant was spent in Republican administrations, the later years of his life saw him supporting Democratic presidential candidates and harshly criticizing top Republican leaders.   
By 2008, the longtime Republican's coveted presidential endorsement went to another party when he announced his support for Obama's White House bid. At the time, he touted Obama's "ability to inspire" and the "inclusive nature of his campaign," while criticizing attacks on the Illinois senator by Republican presidential nominee John McCain's campaign as "inappropriate." He was later named an honorary co-chair of Obama's inauguration and endorsed him again in 2012.
Powell went on to vote for Hillary Clinton in 2016 over Donald Trump, whom he had strongly condemned as a "national disgrace and an international pariah."   
In an extraordinary move that year, three presidential electors in Washington state cast votes for Powell rather than Clinton, resulting in state fines that were later upheld by the Supreme Court.   
He again snubbed Trump in 2020 during the President's second campaign, announcing his support for Joe Biden in June of that year while blasting Trump's presidency.  
"We have a Constitution. And we have to follow that Constitution. And the President has drifted away from it," he told CNN, adding that he "certainly cannot in any way support President Trump this year." The retired general later delivered an address in support of Biden during the Democratic National Convention.   
And after Trump incited a deadly insurrection at the US Capitol in early January 2021, Powell told CNN that he no longer considered himself a Republican, with the longtime grandee of the GOP saying he was now simply watching events unfold in a country he long served.  
"I can no longer call myself a fellow Republican. I'm not a fellow of anything right now," he told CNN's Fareed Zakaria on "GPS." "I'm just a citizen who has voted Republican, voted Democrat throughout my entire career. And right now, I'm just watching my country and not concerned with parties." 
This story has been updated with additional information.
CNN's Deidre McPhillips, Jake Tapper, Jennifer Hansler and Kylie Atwood contributed to this report. 
 (KHN)My unvaccinated 7-year-old son began hacking and sneezing in late September as the hospitals in our home state of Montana started buckling under the latest Covid-19 surge. I took him to get tested when his symptoms wouldn't go away.
The cotton swab went up his nostrils and Thomas bucked out of my lap with a mighty snort, nearly ripping the 6-inch swab from the pediatrician assistant's fingers. It came out bent, but the sample was usable, and as she put it away, I asked a question to which I already knew the answer.
"So we're in quarantine?" She nodded. It would take about 72 hours to get the results, she said.
The next day, 4-year-old twins Anna and Karen started coughing and sneezing like their brother. They were already under orders to stay home after being exposed to a classmate who tested positive for Covid-19, but they, too, were slapped with a new quarantine while we waited for the test results.


We had already experienced two Covid-19 quarantines and summer camp closures in August. In September, our family accomplished a new feat in our pandemic journey: The twins entered a quarantine within a quarantine, running simultaneously to their brother's quarantine.
'I just feel crappy'
For the parents of children too young to get vaccinated, the news that Pfizer and BioNTech deemed their vaccine safe and effective for children ages 5 to 11 is a light at the end of a seemingly never-ending quarantine tunnel. 
Remember those lockdowns that defined spring 2020 for everyone? We parents are still living them, in increments lasting up to 10 days. When we're not in quarantine, we're bracing for the next one.
My wife, Beagan, and I now flinch every time we see a school number on our phones' caller ID. Are they closing again? Will our bosses be understanding this time? Can we find part-time care at the last minute? Are we even allowed to bring in that outside help if we're in quarantine?
But the record hospitalizations and spike in Covid-19 deaths put the problems of our confined  yet healthy  family in perspective. The same day my son was tested, Montana was among the top five states for new case rates and the governor sent National Guard troops to help hospitals bursting with Covid-19 patients. The 1,326 new Covid-19 cases reported by the state included 118 kids under age 10.
Our pediatrician's office is part of the St. Peter's Health system, which was implementing crisis standards of care to ration medical services. Several hundred feet from us at the doctor's office, all eight intensive care beds in the main wing of the hospital were filled, six by Covid-19 patients.

Here we were, just three weeks into the school year, and we were drained. Beagan and I spent much of August and September trying to manage the kids and our jobs. How bad might it get when the cold weather forced us all back indoors?
To top it off, we discovered that the two kittens we adopted from the local shelter had ringworm. The fungal infection spread to the entire family and the dog.
My wife summed it up neatly: "I feel like a crappy parent, a crappy employee, a crappy spouse, a crappy pet owner. I just feel crappy."
Unvaccinated children face increased risks of Covid-19
Children are much less likely than adults to get seriously ill or die from Covid-19. But they make up about 15% of all Covid-19 cases, and the highly transmissible delta variant has led to a jump in child hospitalizations. Some children who get the disease may also develop "long Covid" or the sometimes fatal multisystem inflammatory syndrome.
Despite the surge, it seems a lot of people in Helena and around the state have put the pandemic behind them. Maskless faces in indoor spaces, crowded events and low vaccination rates are the norm, aided by new state laws that stymie local health officials' ability to implement common Covid-19 precautionary measures.
I feel like an oddity when I'm one of the few masked patrons or employees at the grocery store, or my kids are the only ones masked at the children's science museum. So I asked Dr. Lauren Wilson, vice president  of the Montana chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics, whether I was being too cautious.
Wilson said the parents of unvaccinated kids are right to be cautious, not just because their children might get Covid-19, but because they could bring it home and spread it to vulnerable family members. It's also important to balance protecting children with providing for their needs, particularly their mental health, she added.

Potato chips for breakfast
That can be difficult when parents are experiencing "decision fatigue" from the scores of choices they face every day about their families' safety, she said. It's difficult to assess risks when so many people are ignoring public health recommendations.
Our wait for test results stretched from three days to five. On the last day, I wrote this essay between tea parties, breaking up fistfights, playing "Frozen" on the television for the umpteenth time and giving in to my son's request to have potato chips for breakfast. The kids' negative Covid-19 test results arrived near day's end.
Then we found out our 7-year-old son could soon join the ranks of the vaccinated if the Food and Drug Administration approves the Pfizer-BioNTech shot for his age group.
That will be a big day for us, along with the twins' fifth birthdays in the spring. In the meantime, I've started to cough and sneeze. Considering the kids' tests were negative, I think I'll skip getting one myself  in hopes of breaking our quarantine streak.
KHN (Kaiser Health News) is a national newsroom that produces in-depth journalism about health issues. Together with Policy Analysis and Polling, KHN is one of the three major operating programs at KFF (Kaiser Family Foundation). KFF is an endowed nonprofit organization providing information on health issues to the nation.Correction: A previous version of this story identified Dr. Lauren Wilson with an incorrect title.
 (CNN)Brooklyn Nets general manager Sean Marks has confirmed Kyrie Irving "will not play or practice with the team until he is eligible to be a full participant," as issues relating to the star guard's vaccination status continue.
On Friday, a New York City Hall official told CNN that Irving will be allowed to practice at the team's facility but will not be eligible to play in the Nets' home games at Barclays Center due to the city's Covid-19 vaccine mandate.
Head coach Steve Nash had admitted that his team will be without Irving for foreseeable home games but Marks said the Nets would not allow a member of the team to be part-time. 
"Kyrie has made a personal choice, and we respect his individual right to choose," Marks said in a statement.
"Currently, the choice restricts his ability to be a full-time member of the team, and we will not permit any member of our team to participate with part-time availability. 
"It is imperative that we continue to build chemistry as a team and remain true to our long-established values of togetherness and sacrifice. 
"Our championship goals for the season have not changed, and to achieve these goals each member of our organization must pull in the same direction. We are excited for the start of the season and look forward to a successful campaign that will make the borough of Brooklyn proud."

Irving, a seven-time All-Star, had spoken at the league's media day last month of his excitement to play in front of fans again but refused to disclose his vaccination status, saying he "would like to keep all that private."
"I know that I'll be there every day no matter what and just be present for my teammates as one of the leaders on the team," he added.
"I know the focus has to be at an all-time high, no distractions. This is the last thing I wanted to create, was more distractions and more hoopla and more drama around this.
"I'm doing my best to maintain this with good intentions and a good heart."
The NBA warned the Nets as well as the New York Knicks and Golden State Warriors in September that new Covid-19 policies set by local governments will prohibit any unvaccinated player from playing in home games in New York City and San Francisco.
The Nets open their 2021-22 season on the road against the defending NBA champion, Milwaukee Bucks on October 19, before hosting their first home game of the season on October 24 against the Charlotte Hornets.

 (CNN)At midnight, Australia's second-largest state emerged from what some experts and local media called the world's longest lockdown.
Victoria is the third state or territory -- after New South Wales (NSW) and the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) -- to begin living with Covid-19 after reaching its target of a 70% adult double vaccination rate. 
The easing of restrictions means that, as of Friday, more than half of Australia's nearly 26 million population is living with the virus, while authorities in the rest of the country push to raise vaccination rates while controlling borders to keep it out.
The division has created a two-speed path out of the pandemic led by states that have suffered the greatest toll, frustrating the federal government's efforts to reopen the entire country to foreign arrivals for the first time in almost two years.
"We need to move in a pace the Australian public feel very comfortable with, we need to demonstrate that opening up those borders is being done safely, and they can feel confident, because I want us to open confidently," Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Friday.
Victoria's 6.7 million residents can now leave their homes for any reason, though they'll need to show proof of full vaccination to enter public venues. Restaurants can cater for limited numbers of diners indoors, students are back in schools, and there's no longer a 9 p.m. curfew in Melbourne. 
However, stores selling non-essential goods won't open until 80% of the state is double vaccinated and masks are required inside and out. 
Still, the end of the lockdown is a huge relief for Melbourne residents who have spent more than 260 days confined to their homes, forbidden to leave except to buy groceries or other essential items, mostly in two long stretches from July to October, 2020 and August to October this year.
The latest lockdown was sparked by an outbreak of the highly-contagious Covid-19 Delta variant. Even as doors opened on Friday, the state recorded 2,189 new cases -- and when people start moving around, it's expected those daily case numbers will continue to rise.

A country divided
The lengthy lockdowns were part of Australia's attempts to reduce the country's Covid-19 infections to zero, a strategy which was largely successful until the outbreaks of the Delta variant. As of Thursday, Australia had recorded nearly 152,000 Covid-19 cases and 1,590 deaths.
But the beginning of Victoria's reopening highlights a stark divide in Australia. While more than half of the country is highly vaccinated and living with the virus, the other 11 million people are living in states with lower vaccination rates that are largely free of Covid-19. 
It isn't clear how long the two Australias can live easily alongside each other. Part of the problem is that, outside of hotspots, there's been little urgency for residents to get the vaccine.

At present, the vaccination rates for Covid-affected southeastern states are far higher than those for the rest of the country. For example, more than 95% of people in the ACT have had their first dose, but that figure falls to 57% in Covid-free Western Australia.
At the current pace of vaccinations, Western Australia and other largely Covid-free states are not expected to hit their 80% double dose targets for weeks.
In the meantime, they remain on guard to keep the virus out. In Queensland on Thursday, a rare breach produced the state's first local positive case in weeks. A man in his 30s who had recently returned from Victoria had spent as many as 10 days while infectious in the community and was so unwell with Covid-19 that he had trouble speaking to contract tracers.
Queensland's Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk described the infection as a "wake-up call" and warned residents that time was running out to get a dose.
This week, Queensland revealed plans to reopen its borders on December 17 -- whether the state has hit its 80% double vaccination target or not. The Western Australian government said on Tuesday it didn't plan to reopen its borders to the rest of the country until after Christmas.

Transition could be 'challenging'
Prime Minister Morrison acknowledged on Thursday that some parts of the country had "concerns about Covid," but he said that was all the more reason to get vaccinated.
"Vaccination gives the confidence to move forward," he said.
Under the national plan, the country's borders will reopen when double vaccination rates hit 80%. On Friday, Victoria joined NSW in announcing the resumption of international arrivals from November 1, with no hotel quarantine required for fully vaccinated travelers.
Qantas also brought forward its planned flight departures for some international routes.
So far, all flights depart from Sydney -- the first Australian city to start living with Covid on October 11. There, daily cases numbers have been falling. On Thursday, the state recorded 345 new infections -- well below the highs of early September. 
Restrictions eased further on Monday when NSW reached its target 80% of adults fully vaccinated. Limits on the numbers of people allowed in private homes rose to 20 and for the first time in months, residents could play community sports.
The country is slowing reopening -- some parts faster than others, and states are looking to each other -- and outside -- for guidance.
So far, Singapore is the only other example in the region of a community that's shifted from a policy of zero Covid to living with the virus. However, the city-state has struggled to strike a balance between relaxing restrictions and preventing the number of new infections from overwhelming hospitals.
On Thursday, Singapore said it would be extending its restrictions after recording 18 deaths in the past 24 hours, the country's highest number since the start of the pandemic. 
Lawrence Wong, co-chair of Singapore's Covid-19 taskforce, said Wednesday medical staff were "stretched and fatigued."
"At the current situation, we face considerable risk of the healthcare system being overwhelmed," he said.
While some Australian health experts have warned the health system is unprepared for a large spike of new Covid-19 infections after reopening, Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews was optimistic.
Andrews said Monday that case numbers were becoming "less and less relevant" due to high vaccination rates among the community, and he acknowledged the shift to living with Covid would be "very challenging." 
"Whenever you've got hundreds and perhaps thousands of patients needing care ... that does put great strain on our system," he said.

Tokyo (CNN)Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida dissolved Parliament's lower house on Thursday, setting the stage for a general election this month as he seeks to rouse support for his newly formed government.
The vote, to be held on October 31, will be Kishida's first major test after he won the ruling party's leadership election on September 29 and was officially appointed Japan's 100th Prime Minister on October 4.
Local media reports have suggested the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, headed by Kishida, hopes to take advantage of the recent nationwide decline in Covid-19 cases to drum up support for the party. 
The previous Prime Minister, Yoshihide Suga, didn't run in his party's leadership race, following a turbulent term marked by a slump in public support as he struggled to contain the coronavirus.

Kishida is pushing for what he calls a "new capitalism." He has promised to raise salaries for the middle class and implement an economic stimulus package worth at least $290 billion to revive the world's third-largest economy, Reuters reported.
He has committed to bolstering the government's Covid-19 response and said Tuesday it would provide free vaccine booster shots as early as December.
The Prime Minister has also pledged to promote a free and open Indo-Pacific amid rising tensions with China and North Korea. 

A version of this story appeared in CNN's Meanwhile in China newsletter, a three-times-a-week update exploring what you need to know about the country's rise and how it impacts the world. Sign up here.
Hong Kong (CNN)Last week, as China celebrated the 72nd anniversary of Communist Party rule with a week-long public holiday, state-run media cranked up the patriotism to hail the country's economic rise, military achievements, political clout -- and even the height of its men.
Several outlets, including nationalist tabloid the Global Times and broadcaster CCTV, ran reports about a study -- published last year in The Lancet medical journal -- that analyzed the evolution of average heights worldwide. Of the countries examined, China saw the largest male height increase -- between 1985 and 2019, the average height of 19-year-old men in China increased by nearly 3.5 inches (9 centimeters).
The trend appears consistent with what Chinese researchers have found in their own studies. According to a report released last December by the country's National Health Commission, the average height of Chinese men age 18 to 44 rose by nearly half an inch (1.27 centimeters) between 2014 and 2019. 
Chinese women grew taller as well, though they didn't top the list for female growth worldwide.
The revived media coverage of the Lancet study circulated widely online last week, with the topic going viral on Weibo, China's Twitter-like platform. One related hashtag for the topic was viewed more than 200 million times.
"Not only has their height increased, but the status of Chinese people has also increased," said one top comment on Weibo that gained more than 2,400 likes. 
The comment reflects how this increase in height represents far more than a physical development. Rather, it serves as a symbol of how quickly China's economy has grown and quality of life has improved in just a few decades.
When China began economic reforms in the 1970s, it was an impoverished, developing country, with malnutrition and hunger prevalent. The horror of the Great Chinese Famine, during which tens of millions of people starved to death due to disastrous government policies, was still fresh in people's memories. 
The nationwide reforms marked a significant turning point. As the more market-oriented economy grew and the country stabilized, food supply and personal wealth expanded. People's diets began to change, especially as they moved to cities during China's rapid urbanization. 
Importantly, children began receiving the nutrition they needed to grow healthily -- reflected in their height. "The growth of children and adolescents improved in tandem with economic development," said a 2014 study by researchers at the Capital Institute of Pediatrics in Beijing, which found that malnutrition had steadily decreased in toddlers while obesity began appearing in affluent areas. 
It was physical, tangible evidence of the country's progress in alleviating poverty; in just the past few decades, hundreds of millions of people have been lifted out of poverty, according to Chinese government standards. 
By contrast, emerging economies and low-income countries -- including many in sub-Saharan Africa -- saw the average heights of their children stagnate or become shorter since 1985, according to the 2020 study. 
The news of China's men getting taller came at a fortuitous time, supporting President Xi Jinping's declaration in July that the country had achieved its goal of establishing a "moderately prosperous society" in time for the Communist Party's centenary.
China's economic growth and the improvement of its living conditions is a major source of pride for the Chinese public -- many of whom reflected on social media about the country's rapid transformation during the  "Golden Week" holiday following National Day on October 1.
"Now children's heights are much higher than before because nutrition is much better than before," one Weibo user said. Foreigners grow tall because they have a rich diet of milk and meat, the user added -- and now, it's normal for Chinese people to do so too.
But China's economic boom has also seen an increasing wealth divide between rural and urban areas -- reflected in their health and height.
According to China's National Bureau of Statistics, the per capita disposable income for rural households in 2019 was 16,021 yuan ($2,440), compared to 42,359 yuan ($6,450) in urban areas. And many rural communities have been cut off from basic amenities and transport links for decades, even as large parts of the country have rapidly modernized.
The divide means that generally, rural children are shorter and less healthy than urban children.
One 1996 study showed the increase in children's average height was five times higher in urban than rural areas. And though rates of stunting and undernutrition have dropped dramatically around the country, they still remain common in poor rural areas, according to the 2014 study.
"Large discrepancies still exist between rural and urban areas both in health conditions and in health care," said the study, calling for more measures that promote "equitable growth for all children in China."
Flooding in the north

People reinforcing embankments to cope with flooding in Yuncheng, in China's northern Shanxi province, on October 7. Heavy rainfall and flooding has affected 1.75 million people across Shanxi, state-run outlet Xinhua reported, citing provincial authorities. More than 120,000 residents have been displaced, 17,000 houses have collapsed and 190,000 hectares of farmland damaged.
China rolling out Covid booster shots
A growing number of local authorities in China have started giving Covid-19 booster shots to fully vaccinated residents, as the country seeks to strengthen public immunity in the lead-up to the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics.
In recent weeks, dozens of cities in at least nine Chinese provinces have rolled out additional shots for people who received a second dose at least six months ago, the state-run Global Times reported.  
They include the coastal city of Xiamen in Fujian province, which has just contained a recent outbreak of the Delta variant.
China has administered more than 2.2 billion doses of domestic-made Covid-19 vaccines, according to the National Health Commission. And as of last month, a billion Chinese people had been fully vaccinated. 
But experts have raised questions over the efficacy of Chinese vaccines, especially in face of the highly transmittable Delta variant.
Vaccine breakthrough infections -- which happen when a fully vaccinated person gets infected with Covid-19 -- are a problem for Covid vaccines around the world, including the highly effective mRNA shots developed by Pfizer/BioNtech and Moderna.
But Chinese vaccines already had lower efficacy rates for the original variant. According to the World Health Organization, the Sinovac and Sinopharm vaccines have an efficacy of 51% and 79% against symptomatic infection respectively, although their efficacy rates against severe cases are higher.
But for China, the relatively low efficacy against infections -- even if mild -- spells a problem for its zero-Covid strategy, which seeks to completely eradicate Covid cases within its borders.
At a news conference in late August, NHC official Zheng Zhongwei recommended high-risk groups, such as workers at customs, airports and quarantine sites, should be given a booster shot six months after they've been fully vaccinated.
On Saturday, Xinhua reported that Sinovac's efficacy rate against symptomatic infections increased from 56% to 80.2% following a booster shot, citing research conducted in Chile.

New York (CNN Business)Southwest Airlines says that its recent service problems, which prompted it to cancel more than 2,000 flights over a four-day period, cost the airline $75 million.
That's just one of the headwinds facing the discount airline. Southwest warned Thursday that it believes revenue will take a $100 million hit this quarter from the lingering effects of the Covid surge caused by the Delta variant -- even though bookings have improved recently, especially during the upcoming holiday travel period. About $40 million of that hit is expected to come in October. 
Still, that's an improvement from the revenue hit in the third quarter, when the airline believes it lost $100 million in sales in August alone and $200 million in September because of reduced flying caused by the Covid surge.
Overall the airline reported that third-quarter revenue reached $4.7 billion, up 161% from a year ago but down 17% compared with third quarter of 2019 ahead of the pandemic. 
The company reported a third-quarter loss, excluding special items, of $135 million. That was a bit smaller than forecast by analysts. Including the $763 million it received from the most recent round of federal assistance, the company posted net income of $446 million in the quarter.
Southwest (LUV) blamed the service meltdown in early October on a combination of bad weather in Florida, a brief problem with air traffic control in the area and a lack of available staff to adjust to those problems. It has admitted it was having service problems caused by short staffing even before the thousands of canceled flights stranded hundreds of thousands of passengers, angering many of them.
"We have reined in our capacity plans to adjust to the current staffing environment, and our ontime performance has improved, accordingly," said CEO Gary Kelly. "We are aggressively hiring to a goal of approximately 5,000 new employees by the end of this year, and we are currently more than halfway toward that goal."
American Airlines
American Airlines (AAL) reported it lost $641 million in the quarter, excluding special items. Like Southwest, that was a bit less than analysts had forecast. American also reported net income of $169 million, with the help of $992 million in federal assistance.
Revenue at American nearly reached $9 billion, up 183% from a year ago, but it was still down 25% from where it was in the third quarter of 2019, before the start of the pandemic.
The third quarter included a summer travel period which started out strong for most airlines before the Covid surge caused people to cut back on travel. 
The airlines had also been counting on a rebound in more lucrative business travel after Labor Day, when many businesses were expected to reopen their offices. But the surge also caused many businesses to delay those office reopenings, which put a large-scale rebound in business travel on hold.
Still the airlines are reporting that bookings during the holiday travel season, one of the busiest times of the year, remain strong.
Shares of Southwest and American were both slightly higher in pre-market trading Thursday.

 (CNN)In the heart of Melbourne, Australia, lies an 87-square-meter, three-story, two-bedroom and one-bathroom house. That may sound like a real estate advert, but it could be the home of the future. 
Made entirely from organic materials and run on renewable energy, the building, known as "The Greenhouse," is completely zero waste. It was designed by zero waste advocate Joost Bakker, as part of his Future Food System housing experiment.
"The greenhouse is inspired by nature -- it's an ecosystem where nothing is wasted," Bakker tells CNN. Organic waste is fed into a biodigester where it ferments and is turned into gas for cooking or fertilizer for produce; rainwater is harvested and used for irrigation and an aquaponics system, where plants grow using waste from on-site fish; and hot steam from the shower enables a wall of mushrooms to thrive. 

The design of the house is topsy-turvy, says Bakker, with the roof as the foundation, loaded with 35 tons of soil. That helps hold the building in place, he says, and provides fertile ground for cultivating produce -- more than 200 plant species grow on the roof terrace, as well as insects, snails, fish, mussels, crustaceans and chickens. 
House and home 
The site is more than just a model home -- for the last 10 months it's been a real one for Jo Barrett and Matt Stone, who were also chefs at the small in-house restaurant. Read: Preserving the last quiet places on the planetSince January, they have been cooking up meals three days a week (except during the periods when Melbourne has been in a Covid-19 lockdown), serving a multi-course menu using only what's grown on site. Picture vegan crme caramels made from tiger nuts and honey harvested from the rooftop's beehives, and falafel balls containing crickets, for a nutritional boost.  
"To be able to grow and produce food on a tiny footprint in the middle of the city and turn it into exciting dishes is completely unique," says Stone. 
In November, the chefs are moving out to make way for public tours supported by the City of Melbourne. These will include school trips and every Friday guests will be invited to cook from the house. 
Read: A huge wildlife camera trap study has been turned into a game
While the Greenhouse only has a permit to stay in Melbourne's Federation Square until the end of next April, the ecosystem will live on, as the house is set to be relocated outside of the city, becoming a permanent home for Bakker's mother.  
Urban ecosystem
Through the Greenhouse project, Bakker wanted to demonstrate he could feed a family with his self-sustaining house design. "I think we've proved that it's actually much more productive than even I had imagined," he says. "We've harvested 35 kilos of potatoes from a square meter."

He hopes the example will offer a blueprint to future homes and a viable alternative to the current food system, which is responsible for more than a third of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. Creating a circular system could also help to drastically reduce food waste, of which there is 1.3 billion tons a year, costing the global economy $940 billion.  
"We're the only species that generates waste. In nature, there is no waste; everything becomes a food source for something else," says Bakker. "If we transition to a circular economy, we have so much potential to stop the destruction of wilderness and forest."

Bakker's dream for creating a sustainable food system dates back to when he was 12 years old, soon after his family emigrated from the Netherlands to Australia. It became reality in 2008, when he set up a series of pop-up restaurants in Australia that used ingredients grown on site. Their success led him to opening Silo, a permanent, zero-waste restaurant in Melbourne, in 2012. 
However, Bakker has never felt such hype behind the movement as he does now. He believes the Covid-19 pandemic has brought people closer to home and to nature and the interest in self-sufficient food has soared. "I think we're living in the middle of a revolution," he says.

London (CNN)Queen Elizabeth II is resting at Windsor Castle after "reluctantly" accepting medical advice to cancel a trip to Northern Ireland, planned for Wednesday and Thursday, Buckingham Palace has said.   
The 95-year-old UK monarch has been advised to rest for the "next few days," the palace said in a statement.
A source close to the palace told CNN that it is "not Covid related."
"Her Majesty is in good spirits and is disappointed that she will no longer be able to visit Northern Ireland, where she had been due to undertake a series of engagements today and tomorrow," the statement said.
"The Queen sends her warmest good wishes to the people of Northern Ireland, and looks forward to visiting in the future," it added.
The Queen, along with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, had been due to attend a church service in the city of Armagh on Thursday, marking the centenary of partition and Northern Ireland's foundation.
Irish president Michael D. Higgins had earlier declined an invitation to attend the church service, because its title "isn't a neutral statement politically."
Ireland's Church Leader's Group said in a statement Wednesday that it was "sorry" to learn the Queen would not be attending. The group acknowledged "the significance of her commitment to the work of peace and reconciliation."

However the Queen is still expected to attend the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow, Scotland, which begins later this month.
She was overheard saying last week that the lack of action on tackling the climate crisis is "irritating."
The Queen's medical update comes days after she turned down a magazine's attempt to award her the title of "Oldie of the Year," saying she felt too young at heart.
She is the world's longest-reigning monarch, presiding over the nation for almost seven decades. She became Queen in 1952, aged 25.
CNN's Peter Taggart contributed to this report 
 (CNN)Convicted killer Robert Durst, who was the subject of the HBO docuseries "The Jinx," has been charged with the murder of his former wife, according to the Westchester District Attorney's office.
The complaint was filed in Lewisboro Town Court in New York on October 19, district attorney spokeswoman Jess Vecchiarelli said.
Kathleen McCormack Durst was last seen in 1982 and declared legally dead in 2017. Her body has not been found.
Durst is battling Covid-19.
In September, a Los Angeles jury found him guilty of first-degree murder. He was sentenced to life in prison without parole for killing his best friend, Susan Berman, more than 20 years ago.
Durst has been charged with the first-degree murder of Berman in 2000 at her Beverly Hills home, hours before she was set to talk to investigators about the mysterious disappearance of Kathleen McCormack Durst.
Her family is "very happy" Durst has been charged, attorney Robert Abrams said.
The family will not have further comment until the case proceeds, he said in a statement.
Murder date 'on or about' January 31, 1982
Robert Durst has been charged with one count of murder in the second degree in the alleged killing of his former wife in Lewisboro, New York, "on or about" January 31 1982, court documents say.
The one-page complaint alleges that "The defendant Robert Durst, at the above time and place, with the intent to cause the death of Kathleen McCormack Durst, caused the death of Kathleen McCormack Durst." 
The complaint filed by a New York State Police investigator cites files maintained by the Office of the Westchester County District attorney, the New York State Police and the district attorney's office of Los Angeles as well as "conversations with numerous witnesses and observations of defendant's recorded interviews and court testimony in related proceedings."
The Town of Lewisboro Justice Court Clerk's office provided the complaint, which is stamped received October 19.
New York State Police deferred to the Westchester County District Attorney's Office.
CNN is reaching out to the Los Angeles district attorney and an attorney for Robert Durst.

 (CNN)Brazilian senators have recommended President Jair Bolsonaro be charged with 10 crimes, including crimes against humanity, alleging his "reckless" mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis that led to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people.
Lawmakers investigating the President officially presented their report on Wednesday, condemning the populist leader's handling of the crisis and pushing for him to face a swathe of charges.
They accused Bolsonaro of an epidemic resulting in death, charlatanism, incitement to crime, falsification of documents, irregular use of public funds, prevarication, crimes against humanity, social rights violations, incompatibility with dignity, honor and decorum of the position, and preventive sanitary measure violations.
This is the first time in Brazil's history that a parliamentary commission of inquiry (CPI) has drawn up such an extensive list of alleged crimes accusing a President of the Republic.
CPI rapporteur Renan Calheiros also called for the submission of the investigation to the International Criminal Court (ICC) to analyze the accusations on Bolsonaro of crimes against humanity.
The congressional committee had originally planned to recommend mass homicide charges, according to a leaked draft report seen by CNN on Tuesday. But senators decided later to withdraw those allegations, CNN affiliate CNN Brasil reported.
Speaking publicly for the first time after the release of the CPI's final report, Bolsonaro said on Wednesday afternoon that the commission's work isn't "productive" to Brazil and that he is not guilty of any crimes.
"They produced nothing but hatred and resentment among some of us. But we know we're absolutely not to blame, we know we did the right thing from the first moment," Bolsonaro said to a crowd of supporters at an inauguration ceremony for an infrastructure project.
"Besides being sure that I'm doing the right thing, I give you all a message different from dread," he added, before the public started chanting a derogatory phrase about the CPI rapporteur.
The Brazilian president once again doubled down on his support for drugs without proven efficacy against Covid-19, such as hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin, touting his "courage" to defend such treatments as possible solutions for the virus.
"If you don't have a specific remedy, the medical doctor, according to the Federal Council of Medicine, has the freedom, the duty, to seek an alternative," he said.


In the final report, 65 others are also recommended to be charged with a variety of alleged crimes, from incitement to crime to criminal organization formation. 
Bolsonaros three sons Flavio, Eduardo and Carlos Bolsonaro are on the list as well as government ministries and top rank officials, both former and current Health ministers Eduardo Pazuello and Marcelo Queiroga and defense minister Walter Braga Netto. Congressmen, bloggers, medical advisers, and businessmen also appear on the list.
The commission's senators are expected to vote on the final report next week, and if approved, the document will go to Attorney-General Augusto Aras, considered an ally of Bolsonaro, who would then have 30 days to announce any measures.
'Reckless' leadership
One of the main conclusions of the 1,180-page document is that the Brazilian government, "omitted and opted to act in a non-technical and reckless manner in the fight against the pandemic" ... "deliberately exposing the population to a concrete risk of mass infection."
The report also criticizes the government's discouragement of sanitary measures, including going against scientific advice including the use of social distancing and the use of masks. The report denounced what it said was the Brazilian government's deliberate delay in the purchase of vaccines and its push towards ineffective so-called treatments against Covid-19 such as hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin.
In the report, senators proposed a series of laws for Congress to pass, including criminalization of fake news, pensions for orphans, early retirement caused by Covid-19, and a 60-day time limit for the Congress to review requests to impeach Bolsonaro.
Late on Tuesday at the end of a meeting, CPI president Sen. Omar Aziz said the allegations of genocide against Brazilian Indigenous communities would also be dropped from the text, due to a lack of consensus.
"What we agreed upon is the issue of genocide, which was withdrawn. I think it's for the better. (Report author) Sen. Renan Calheiros heard arguments from everybody, it was very clear," Aziz told reporters.
Since the beginning of the CPI, when Brazil was facing its worst moment on the pandemic, Bolsonaro's approval rate has consistently been going down.
The latest poll on Bolsonaro's popularity, released in mid-September by Brazil's largest opinion polling group Datafolha Institute, shows that 53% of Brazilians consider Jair Bolsonaro's presidency to be "bad or awful." It is the highest disapproval rate for this poll since he took office in 2019.
CNN has asked President Bolsonaro's office for comment but did not receive a response. The President and his supporters have previously criticized the Senate's investigation into his handling of the pandemic as politically motivated.
"They want to accuse me of genocide. Now, tell me in what country people have not died? This CPI has no credibility," Bolsonaro said.
He also said then that he was "sorry about the dead, but people who were healthy had little chance of dying."
CNN has also reached out to former Health Minister Eduardo Pazuello, current Health Minister Marcelo Queiroga and Defense minister Walter Braga Netto for comment.
Bolsonaro has long downplayed the severity of the virus, and argued for the need to prioritize Brazil's economic health. He tested positive for Covid-19 in 2020.
Reporting contributed by CNN's Rodrigo Pedroso and Shasta Darlington in Sao Paulo, and Samantha Beech in Atlanta. CNN's Rob Picheta also contributed to this story.
 (CNN)With another round of international matches looming in the football calendar, questions about players being released to represent their countries remain a headache for the Premier League.
Under new guidelines announced last week, several Premier League footballers returning from international duty face 10 days in "bespoke quarantine facilities" -- a move that has irked Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp. 
The guidelines say that fully-vaccinated players returning to the UK from "red list" countries -- including Brazil and Argentina -- will be allowed out of their quarantine facilities once a day to train or play in matches. 
But Klopp, for whom Brazil's Alisson and Fabinho, Greece's Kostas Tsimikas and Senegal's Sadio Mane will be impacted by the 10-day quarantine measures, has voiced concerns about the decision. 
"They go for 10-12 days with their national teams, and then they go another 10 days away from their families into quarantine," he told reporters last week. "That's 22 days, and two weeks later there's the next international break. It doesn't sound to me like a real solution."
Klopp went on to add: "We take people for three weeks out of normal life for actually no real reason because we take care of our players when they're here and with their families. 
"They don't do anything else. They go home, come to training and go home ... The Premier League has to fight for our players."
The guidelines for Premier League players are different compared to members of the public returning from red list countries, who have to quarantine in a hotel for 10 days after arriving in England. 
The exemption for players is also subject to strict protocols and a code of conduct to be agreed with clubs, the Football Association (FA) and Public Health England.
From Monday, the UK government amended its travel rules, in part by scrapping its green and amber lists of countries. More than 50 countries remain on the red list. 
The current international break, during which teams will compete in the final stages of the UEFA Nations League and qualifiers for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, runs from October 4-14; Premier League fixtures start again on October 16.  
"We have worked closely with football authorities to achieve an outcome that balances the interests of both club and country while maintaining the highest levels of public health and safety," a UK government spokesperson said in relation to the exemption for players on international duty. 
"Our best defence against the virus is vaccination and these new measures will allow fully vaccinated players to fulfill their international duties in the safest, most practical way possible, while allowing them to train and play with their clubs as early as possible upon their return."
Alongside the FA and FIFA, the Premier League tried to find a solution to shorten players' quarantine period but accepted the UK health authorities' desire to maintain a 10-day quarantine. The protocols will be reviewed by the governing bodies over the course of this international window. 
"FIFA welcomes the UK government`s decision to allow fully vaccinated players the opportunity to represent their countries in the upcoming qualifying matches for the FIFA World Cup and return from a red-list country to bespoke quarantine conditions," said a statement from football's governing body. 
"We have worked closely with the UK government, Football Association and Premier League to find a reasonable solution, in the interests of everyone, and we believe this is a much more desirable solution to the situation that players faced in September."
The statement added: "We acknowledge this decision does not help every player and we remain committed to further improving the situation for upcoming windows and joining discussions to explain more about the many measures we are putting in place to reduce the risks of Covid transmission into the community as a result of player travel."
Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, videos and features
Previously, Premier League clubs have decided not to release players for international matches in red-list countries. 
Then in September, there were chaotic scenes as the World Cup qualifier between Brazil and Argentina was suspended minutes after kickoff when four Argentinian players were accused of breaking Covid travel protocols. 
Brazilian health officials marched onto the pitch in So Paulo and claimed that the players in question had made false statement upon arriving in Brazil, omitting that they had been in the UK in the past 14 days. 
CNN's John Sinnott contributed to reporting. 
A version of this story appeared in CNN's Meanwhile in China newsletter, a three-times-a-week update exploring what you need to know about the country's rise and how it impacts the world. Sign up here.
Hong Kong (CNN)A girl wearing a green varsity jacket sits with her feet up inside a shopping cart in an empty parking lot; a group of friends in sunglasses hold up pizzas and cokes; another girl in a baseball cap poses on a lawn at dusk, looking back at her long shadow on the grass.
These photos, which are trending on Chinese social media, all have one thing in common -- a big "Costco wholesale" logo featured prominently in the background, often against a deep blue sky.
The American retailer, which opened its first China store in Shanghai to massive crowds in 2019, has become an unlikely destination for Chinese influencers. But it's not the store's discounted bulk items that's attracting them; instead they are drawn to what they consider to be its "California vibe." 
For nearly two years, most people in China have been unable to travel abroad, due to the country's stringent and unrelenting Covid-19 border restrictions: outbound flights are limited, quarantine upon reentry is harsh and lengthy, and Chinese authorities have ceased issuing or renewing passports for all but essential travel.
Nevertheless, some Chinese influencers have come up with creative ways to bring seemingly exotic scenes to their social media feeds -- by taking pictures at places like the Costco Shanghai store.

On Xiaohongshu, a fashion and lifestyle app often referred to as China's Instagram, users share tips on how to pose for photos in front of the big box store so it looks as if they are in Los Angeles.
The pointers include wearing bright, casual clothes, carrying pizza and cola as props if you don't have Costco membership, and taking photos in the late afternoon, when the colors appear warmer and more saturated.
Most users are upfront about the fact they're not actually in LA and are merely posing for fun -- with phrases like "Pretending to be in LA" cited frequently in captions.
Other popular pandemic-era hashtags include "Pretending to be in Paris" and "Pretending to be in Tokyo," with users posing in foreign-styled shopping streets, cafes or tea gardens.
For many influencers, this is just another fun way to liven-up their feeds. But the posts are also a painful and vivid reminder of how long China has been shut off from the world.
Before the pandemic hit, overseas travel had become a common part of life for China's growing middle class.
In 2019, mainland Chinese tourists made 155 million trips, with Macau, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Myanmar and the United States being the top destinations. 
China was also the world's single biggest spender on outbound tourism. According to the United Nations' World Tourism Organization, Chinese tourists spent more than $254 billion overseas in 2019 -- nearly one-fifth of global tourism spending.
At the height of the pandemic, global travel was brought to a halt, with nations rushing to close borders and cancel international flights. 
Now, a growing number of countries are opening up and learning to live with the virus after rolling out mass vaccinations. But China is still keeping its borders tightly sealed and doubling down on its zero-Covid policy -- with an aim to completely eradicate the virus from inside the country.

With overseas travel no longer viable, Chinese authorities have promoted domestic tourism as an alternative. China's vast size and rich diversity have played to its advantage, but it remains to be seen how much longer Chinese citizens will be content with being shut off from the real LA, Paris or Tokyo.
And with the highly infectious Delta variant, even domestic travel can be risky. 
China's latest outbreak, which has infected more than 300 people across 12 provinces, is linked to a dozen tour groups, according to health authorities. Travel agencies have also been banned from organizing cross-provincial tours in regions with high case numbers.
In the country's northwest, hundreds of domestic tourists were trapped in Inner Mongolia and Gansu for days when authorities imposed stringent lockdowns to curb the spread of the virus. 
In Ejin Banner, a region of Inner Mongolia, the local tourism board apologized by offering trapped tourists free entry to three popular attractions, redeemable within three years. But whether they will be willing to return is another story.

 (CNN)The new trailer for "The Batman," the latest reboot of the iconic movie franchise, features a recognizably dark and gritty Gotham and previews the return of several of the superhero's most infamous enemies.
Warner Bros. and DC Comics debuted the trailer Saturday at the DC FanDome event, where the comics giant also released new trailers for "The Flash" and "Black Adam." (Warner Bros. is owned by WarnerMedia, CNN's parent company.)
The trailer for "The Batman," directed by Matt Reeves, reveals a bullet-proof Robert Pattinson in the titular role, grunting and scowling in the superhero's now-familiar style as he beats up on a series of darkly lit, anonymous grunts.
"When that light hits the sky, it's not just a call. It's a warning," a voice intones over a shot of the Bat Signal.
A wig-wearing Zo Kravitz arrives in her role as Selina Kyle aka Catwoman, and the trailer also offers early looks at Paul Dano as the Riddler and a nearly unrecognizable Colin Farrell as Penguin.
"This is a powder keg," a voice whispers over a massive explosion, "and Riddler is the match."
Both Riddler and Penguin look to have a different spin than previous on-screen appearances in the franchise. Danny DeVito played Penguin in 1992's "Batman Returns" and Jim Carrey took on the Riddler in 1995's "Batman Forever," both giving the characters a sillier, campier angle than this latest trailer suggests.
Batman is one of the studio's most important and lucrative franchises. The film series has brought in more than $5 billion at the global box office going back to 1989's "Batman," according to Comscore. Pattinson will be the latest to join the ranks of other famous actors including Michael Keaton, Christian Bale and Ben Affleck who have worn the Batsuit.
Warner Bros. has taken some of DC Entertainment's most beloved characters in a new direction focusing on more personal, and even adult-oriented stories. "The Batman" looks to be the latest film to follow this trend.
"The Batman" is set to hit theaters in March 2022 after twice being delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
CNN's Frank Pallotta contributed to this report.
New York, NY (CNN Business)Elon Musk's personal wealth is now $222 billion, widening his gap as the richest person in the world according to Bloomberg's Billionaires Index. Musk's personal wealth skyrocketed an extra $10.6 billion after a secondary share sale by investors, announced last week, valued  SpaceX over $100 billion, CNBC reported.
Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon (AMZN), follows Musk with a net worth of $191.6 billion. Musk tweeted a second place medal at Bezos early today. 
Thanks to both Musk's Tesla shares and his majority stake in privately-held SpaceX, where he serves as CEO, Musk has accumulated vast wealth.
Musk gained $8.6 billion since Friday's closing and more than $52 billion year-to-date, the Bloomberg Billionaires Index says.  
Tesla (TSLA) shares are also climbing, as they recover from a rocky year. They are up 13% year-to-date, far less than its 743% gain in 2020. Still, that's a big improvement from when they were down 22% for the year in May. 
Musk got $0 in pay in 2020, according to a company filing, but he did receive stock options during the year that are now worth $22 billion. And those options are worth far more due to the rise in stock price.
Musk and Bezos  the two richest men on earth  are embroiled in a billionaire space race. Even before it launched the first tourism mission to space on Inspiration4 in September, Musk's SpaceX won massive NASA and US military contracts and flew the most powerful rocket in operation. 

Bezos, who founded Blue Origin in 2000, and billionaire Virgin-brands owner Richard Branson, both traveled to space last summer. 
A June ProPublica report found that some billionaires, including Elon Musk, Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos, pay minimal income tax compared to the vast majority of Americans, despite their immense wealth. Nothing revealed in the report was illegal. 
Meanwhile, the US economy is still recovering from the Covid-19 recession. Median household income fell 2.9% in 2020 to $67,521, the first statistically significant decline since 2011. September's job report marked the second straight month in which the economy added far fewer jobs than expected. 
CNN's Chris Isidore and Matt Egan contributed to this report.  

New Delhi (CNN Business)Shiba inu coin soared to a new record on Wednesday, capping a surge of over 60,000,000% over the past year. 
The parody cryptocurrency  which appears to be inspired by dogecoin, another meme cryptocurrency  is up almost 30% over the past 24 hours, according to CoinGecko. It has pared back some of its gains since hitting its all-time high early morning US time, but remains the 11th biggest digital currency by market capitalization.
The token, which was launched last year, has surged roughly 100% in the last seven days, and now has a a market value of about $26 billion.
Like dogecoin, shiba inu coin features the Shiba Inu dog as its mascot. Its meteoric rise has made some investors millionaires overnight.
The coin has also won a handful of celebrity backers, from former boy band stars to pro athletes.
Earlier this year, Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin made headlines by donating $1 billion worth of shiba inu coin to a Covid-19 relief fund in India.
Its dramatic rise this week coincides with rising support for a Change.org petition urging trading platform Robinhood to list shiba inu coin on the site. The petition has garnered 334,500 signatures so far. 
In 2018 , Robinhood started expanding its crypto offerings beyond bitcoin and ethereum to include currencies including litecoin and bitcoin cash. 
This year, dogecoin's record rise put so much pressure on the platform's crypto trading systems, that it was briefly broken. It said this week that cryptocurrencies accounted for nearly 20% of its transaction-based revenues in the third quarter, or about $51 million. That's an 860% increase from the same period last year.
A Robinhood spokesperson declined to comment on the petition. 
But during an earnings call this week, CEO Vladimir Tenev said that his platform will "carefully evaluate whether we can add new coins in a way that's safe for customers and in line with regulatory requirements."
"We feel very, very good about the coins that we're currently listing on our platform. And for any new coins that we add, we want to feel equally, if not more good," he added.
Shiba inu coin also surged earlier this week, but lost some recent gains after Tesla CEO Elon Musk  who is a big fan of dogecoin  tweeted that he does not own any shiba inu coin. In a follow up tweet, he added that he has bought "Bitcoin, Ethereum & Doge. That's it." Musk's tweets have frequently moved crypto markets.
Other popular virtual currencies have also seen explosive growth. Bitcoin, the world's most valuable cryptocurrency, hit an all-time high of nearly $67,000 per coin last week, topping the previous record set in April.
Bitcoin prices have surged 50% this month, from just under $44,000 at the end of September. Bitcoin is currently trading at almost $60,000.

